four three two one
hello Sven hello what's up buddy there's
a discrepancy my my coffee is way way
bigger than your horse I've got like
this 40 ounce big gulp French press yes
um versus the is that a caveman yeah
cold brew nitros yeah those are pretty
good too bunch yeah dude thank you so
much for the bread and the macaroons
goodies
I would probably morbidly obese if I
wasn't an exercise freak it seems like I
yeah yeah Jessa makes that sourdough
bread and it is freaking amazing did you
do that carnivore diet thing did you try
that out no you didn't no no I like me
put it into the cardboard ah you were
gonna do it for a certain amount of time
and test it I thought about it I'm too
much of a foodie I'm like what I did was
I tried to eat rib eye steaks every
night for dinner so I did like a 33%
carnivore diet but there was a study
actually that came out it was just like
two days ago on that TMAO mm-hm the the
sugar that is associated with gut damage
when you're eating a high red meat diet
right when your body takes excess
protein and it turns it into sugar right
with theoretically the idea being that
that might be present because your
microbiome is imbalance from a diet
that's too heavy and meat is there
microfiber it's it's because your biome
I thought it was just because of glue
code gen is's because your body has
nothing but meat your body turns it into
glucose no that that would be something
different that that conversion of
glucose is a different sugar than the
TMAO so what the TMAO is is that's going
to be present if you aren't getting
enough fiber or if you buy on is
imbalanced but what this study a couple
of days looked at was people who are
eating like a fish and egg and plant
rich diet and they had high levels of
TMAO too but they weren't deleterious
their exercise of texture because they
had the fiber yeah and I mean you could
do
you could do a carnivore diet if you or
there's a few populations that do this
like in in Spain I forget the name of
the sausage but they'll like eat the
they'll eat the ruminant like they'll
eat the the intestine of the ruminant
hmm and get their grasses and their
fibers and their plants literally by
eating the stomach of the animal but
like a cat yeah yeah and it's the same
issue with like you know methionine too
much of the amino acid methionine from
just eating red meat would be
deleterious but if you're getting
glycine and some of these other amino
acids if you're reading like nose to
tail right marrow right bone broth
although we're getting meats you know
headcheese braunschweiger just like all
these different mixes of meats I think
that would be the way to do a carb or
diet yeah there's a lot of people that
are proponents of that as well and then
there's a bunch of people that are you
know it's interesting because you've got
a there's a disparity between the
anecdotal accounts of health and
well-being and then bloodwork yeah the
blood work these folks get is not
impressive
I mean the people on the cardboard yeah
what I've seen I haven't seen anything
where I see all their inflammatory
markers down their testosterone up I
haven't seen anything where it's looking
really good yeah high blood glucose is
another thing that you see but I should
say that there haven't been a lot of
tests done it's not like a lot of people
are publishing stuff on it but the
anecdotal evidence is amazing it's like
it's really weird like my friend Jordan
Peterson he's had a tremendous success
with it yeah lost a lot of body weight
he says he's in his intellectual prime
he said he's never felt better in terms
of his energy levels and that guy is he
is so rigid and disciplined with it all
he's eating is meat with salt on it and
drinks water and that is really well if
you think about it it's an elimination
diet yeah right it's like an autoimmune
diet or you can say well I you know I
don't know what's giving me trouble soy
or wheat or dairy or what-have-you so
I'm just gonna stop eating all that
stuff and switch to primarily meat yeah
the problem is that it's you know I
don't want to call anybody out and and
and call them lazy but it's almost like
kind of a very easy lazy s approach
because rather than figuring out how to
do you know like that that sourdough
bread it's slow fermented the Rye in the
are in there but all the phytic acid
that would normally inhibit your ability
to absorb minerals is pre digested by
the lactobacillus and all the bacteria
in the wheat so you've got a bread
that's lower in a glycemic index and
it's it's more easily digested with some
oh that rye and salad or more health
right and you put the Rye in it because
it lowers the glycemic index and then
you've got the what's called the I
forget the term it's like a gluten
digesting enzymes it gets activated with
the lactobacillus so that's a smart
bread it takes freaking 24 hours to it's
it's not 24 hours but it's like 15
minutes over 24 hours that it takes to
make it that's an intelligent approach
to food preparation right that's the way
that our ancestors or many of the Blue
Zones would have treated their foods
fermenting soaking sprouting slow food
and you can take a lot of these things
that would result in you're talking
about Jordan Peterson I know his
daughter does this as well Michaela
Peterson they use that elimination diet
you know which is the carnivore diet to
clear up a lot of those autoimmune
issues but you could also just render
food more digestible or switch to an
elimination diet or an autoimmune diet
for eight weeks or 12 weeks something
like the carnivore diet heal the gut and
then return back to a more all-inclusive
eating pattern that allows you to eat
you know dairy wheat plants etc all
these things that would normally damage
the gut if the gut is actually leaky so
what are the like what what's the
process like what is happening when they
go on this very strict elimination diet
and they're just eating meat like what
is happening to their gut that allows
them to have all these pretty pretty
significant health benefits a lot of
loss of weight increase of energy
autoimmune issues like Jordan had some
some pretty significant gum issues those
all went away depression that went away
all right some of that some of the gum
and the joint stuff might be just as
much related to the fact that he's
getting a shit-ton a college and mm-hmm
you know fiber ID all right or not fiber
but you know elastin and muscle fiber
precursors he's
a lot of protein I don't know if he's
eating bone broth and bone marrow but
maybe a lot of glycine satellites so
part of it could just be more fuel on
board to repair muscles or to repair the
joints but then the other part of it is
that when you eliminate inflammatory
products that you're consuming like
let's say you're eating whatever you
know Wonder Bread and commercial dairy
or or unfermented soy or any of these
things that can actually damage the
lining of the gut you're creating an
inflammatory scenario and I know you're
you're familiar with the gut brain
access and how our gut interacts with
our nervous system via the vagus nerve
and when you have inflammation in the
gut that affects neural symptoms that
affects sleep affects intellectual
performance and then you've also got the
autoimmune component if you're actually
truly allergic to or intolerant to some
of those proteins that wind up in the
bloodstream
in the presence of a leaky gut you know
plant proteins lectins are another one
that a lot of people complain about then
you create almost like a full body
damage scenario so the idea is you get
rid of all that stuff you introduce the
carnivore diet and I don't know there's
a lot of components of the carnivore
diet that are actually healing the gut
as much as it's the absence or
elimination of the foods that we're
harming it mmm interesting the you know
the Bell brothers Chris and Mark you
know yeah um their take on it is
basically they've never felt better and
you know these are guys that work out
very heavily the difference between them
and Jordan is probably that especially
you know Marcus a gorilla
yeah he's powerlifting and you know it's
been doing that basically his whole life
these guys are what their take on it is
essentially they're at least the way
they think is that most people that are
talking about diet they really don't
know what the fuck they're talking about
even though you might be able to look at
it on paper and you might have these
ideas about what's beneficial or non
beneficial some people are proponents of
vegan diet some people are proponents of
you know paleo he's like until you are
actually physically doing something
until you are actually doing something
with that die and then you report how
much better you feel the people that are
actually training really hard those are
the ones you should rely on and he's
saying for him personally he's never
felt better never been leaner
yeah and a big part of it I mean this
just returns to diet personalization and
customization as a whole you know we
live in an era where you can self
quantify pretty easily with genetics and
you can find out what ancestry you came
from what blood markers that you have
what your gut microbiome looks like and
I don't think we talked about this on
the last show but there's this idea of
eating according to your ancestry yeah
and the concept of what are called cold
spots like areas around the world where
people have a genetic susceptibility to
have certain diseases that they don't
actually develop those diseases don't
actually manifest because of their
traditional diet like you look like the
Icelandic population that carries the
genes that would render them more
susceptible to something like depression
or seasonal affective disorder but their
diet is very rich in omega-3 fatty acids
and DHA which we know can protect
against those disorders and you take
take the Icelandic population and you
uproot them and put them in the context
of a westernized diet and all of a
sudden depression and si D manifests
that's say the same thing for like
Cameroon Cameroon Africa higher than
normal risk for colon cancer but they're
eating a diet what is it that's high in
fiber why does it higher the normal risk
I don't know it's a genetic
susceptibility but the idea is that that
population probably figured out at some
point in human history that if they eat
a lot of plants or they eat a lot of
fiber all of a sudden people don't have
as many issues with their colon right
and then you take that same population
again strip out the fiber put them on a
westernized diet and you get a large
portion of the african-american
population developing colon cancer
that's crazy about this seasonal
affective disorder and you got to wonder
how would that affect people that live
in Seattle the Pacific Northwest that
are dealing with constant rain I wonder
if that would have some sort of an
impact on them probably even more if you
come from that population I mean I'm on
the Spokane side but I'm out in the
middle of the forest I get Sun for maybe
10:00 to 2:00 you know I'm in a North
facing slope and I work indoors a lot of
the time you know I'm typing on my
computer
you know I'm blogging and so I don't get
a lot of sun exposure but that's where
you know all these newfangled light
panels and had worn light devices and
things come in that were actually
developed for
seasonal affective disorder that
actually worked pretty well just to keep
your mood up if you're working indoors
you don't get sunlight exposure right
but Spokane is a different environment
right you're not dealing with the
constant rain that they're dealing with
on the actual coast now the
precipitation builds up on the mountains
and dumps back on in Seattle yeah I mean
it still must be you must get much more
than you get in California or Southern
California at least but it's supposed to
be very beautiful out there
it's it's gorgeous so I'm about 25
minutes from Coeur d'Alene oh really
yeah okay yeah that's was amazing I've
never lines beautiful I used to go over
there I race the Ironman and they'd have
that in Lake Coeur d'Alene it's an
iconic race just because I mean the
mountains the lake everything is just
gorgeous I saw pictures of the lake
where people were taking photographs of
the bottom of the lake like from a
hundred feet 100 feet deep of water you
can see the bottom of the lake it's that
air that is insane it's kind of funny
because its actually polluted because of
all the mines that they have around
there there's a lot of metals in it
because the corlane feeds into the
Spokane River and your your allotment of
fish that you're supposed to eat from
the Spokane River is like one a year
well I like it's that high in metals so
I mean I don't need any I don't want I
don't choose no I'm learning that's
awful yeah damn it
yeah but it's a beautiful lake I mean
it's buddy what is the allotment of fish
that you're supposed to eat from the
lake is it similar i I don't know I
don't know but if I if I went to Coeur
d'Alene and I spent a lot of time
swimming there I'd probably spent some
time in the infrared sauna to spend some
of those medals out so let me ask you
this what's the benefit of infrared
sauna versus traditional song is there a
benefit so the idea is it's cooler you
know I do have an infrared here no way
so you walk into the infrared it's like
a hundred and fifty five to 158 degrees
most of them there's a couple that will
go up to like 170 even though the air is
cooler the actual photons of light that
are being released by the panel's does
your you're surrounded by infrared
panels while you're in there
those penetrate more deeply into tissue
so you wind up getting a deeper sweat
you sweat for a longer time you can stay
in there longer because it's not quite
as hot but you look at like the studies
out of Finland all right these these
studies that show four to five year
lifespan increases from a from a weekly
sauna protocol
you know I think it's like four times a
week for 20 to 30 minutes and the
significant drop in dementia and
Alzheimer's and a lot of these these
mortality risk factors and you look at
the studies that have been done in
athletes where you get almost a wreath
ropo eaten like like a blood doping
effect from sauna exposure when done
post-workout and right you stay in there
for 20 to 30 minutes post-workout all of
these were done in a dry sauna yeah
that's why I use a dry sauna as per run
to Patrick's recommendation I just got
that because she said there's no real
studies like that on an infrared there's
a few metal too so they've analyzed
metal and detoxification and some of
these infrared saunas and they have
found that that you release more through
your sweat you get a deeper sweat so if
your goal is something like
detoxification like when I'm in that I'm
fucking drenched like how could I get
more out of that
have you tried like a like try out like
a 30 minute infrared versus dry I have I
I'm an idiot so I don't feel like I'm
suffering as much so I don't like it
when you're in the infrared you don't
feel like yourself exactly yeah see
that's the thing is and maybe I'm jaded
cuz I'm my infrared like I've got it
I've got a kettlebell in there I've put
my bike in there okay I'll get in there
when I go in there at night actually
like I was telling you we're talking
about those those massage devices those
they saw out there yes so right this OS
ones are like a PSO RIT they're like a
ship in your abs love those things but
they open up your cellar they open up
you need to work them on a lot of
different body parts hmm anyway so I'll
have stuff like that in there and
occasionally do bodywork but I actually
move I exercise in the sauna there's a
sauna that's designed for that what the
fuck is that called again there's a
specific sauna that a lot of UFC guys
are in Vegas and they're building them
in gyms I know Winkeljohn gym Mike like
a TV panel in there yeah yeah they have
televisions in there so you can even
watch things like watch like
directionals or watch some sort of
instructional video on exercise yeah
that's what I think they're doing is
they're trying to have you do your
workout like you look at a screen and
it's sauna and you do your workout while
you're looking at this gets a bit spa I
think it's called fits something like
that yeah but the
the the the hot one that I go into mean
I I sweat so much I have a hard time
believing I would sweat more anywhere
else I mean I'm literally pouring sweat
and I keep that fucker around 190
degrees yeah so I'm I'm really ideal
scenario I would like it I don't have a
dry sauna but I would like to get a
barrel sauna because I have the the
infrared in my basement it's one of
those big ones like the four-person
infrared sauna mmm that you can get into
an exercise you can you can yo get more
people do yoga whatnot and I'm you know
six too but I can get into like a full
down dog in lunch or whatever but I'd
love to have a dry sauna as well
what is it bears on a barrel sauna is a
it's like a big barrel you've probably
seen it before they're okay they got
benches on either side they're shaped
like a like a cylinder there they're
very popular they build up a lot of heat
I think even the shape of the barrel
somehow allows the heat to be
distributed more evenly through the
sauna or something like that almost like
a treasure grill okay yeah looks like
yeah so I've got what I did was I bought
learn it oh he's on those endless pools
that you swim against Jamie go to that
one in the upper right-hand corner with
the bubble on the outside of it that
looks fucking awesome yeah keep that
sucker in your backyard I was at a guy's
house in Santa mom and it heats up the
same way that some sort of a power
source attached to that yeah that's
pretty badass see I want to get one of
those and just put it out in the forest
where I can look out with the cedar
barrel saw
yeah looks fucking good yeah yeah yeah
especially if you were in like a cold
area and you could like like that look
at that guy's head set up looking over a
lake you could look out into the snow
serene yeah pretty like a pastoral scene
yeah in the cryo after you do the sauna
sometimes but most days no most days I
do either or yesterday I did cry oh yeah
yeah yeah I've been doing cryo every day
cuz I'm staying down the hill and they
have a crowd therapy chamber there oh
and I'm a bigger fan of the cold wait
the Hilton was a cryotherapy and they've
got a crowd there apish a more they've
got they've got a bunch of work they
have like this thing called upgrade labs
and like the basement of this this
Hilton
really got like a cryo they've got an
infrared sauna they've got subject I've
just been going down there every day and
and working out my workout this morning
actually I did this machine they've got
a machine called a vas / have you seen
this before no you put like it's got
cold cuffs you you know katsu training
like blood flow restriction right so you
put cold cuffs on your arms and then you
put cold cuffs on your legs and increase
the millimeters of mercury and tell your
basically get less blood flow to your
arms and your legs and then it's one of
these full-body exercise devices right
so you're moving your arms and your legs
like an elliptical trainer you're
barefoot and the whole thing is cold so
it's pumping cold water through the
blood pressure cuffs on your arms and
your legs and then it's got cold water
back behind you on here it is right here
what's in this and and by the way this
this thing is not gonna make you an
athlete like that's not the purpose of
something like what is the purpose of it
just general fitness you know you're
getting cold and when you take off the
blood pressure cuffs what happens is
you've got a bunch of lactic acid
trapped in the muscle as you're as
you're moving and typically you're doing
like 30 seconds as hard as you can go so
you might go I mean pretty heavy wattage
like 600 800 watts for 15 to 30 seconds
and then you recover and when you finish
and you take those cuffs off you get
this amplification in growth hormone
testosterone and based on some of the
research they're talking about now stem
cell mobilization really and it's like
this this super quick 21 minute workout
I actually want to get one for my house
and how long is the amplification of
testosterone and growth hormone and all
that stuff times it lasts but I don't
know I mean in many cases I mean it's
like a lot of things that affect
testosterone or growth hormone or
inflammation generally it's like a 24 to
48 hours cycle you know it's like weed
you know we know that weed suppresses
testosterone but it's not chronic it's a
it's a temporary 24 hour drop in
testosterone does it really suppress
testosterone I don't know about that
yeah although a lot of the studies on on
marijuana they're using pretty high
dosage and they're using rodent models
using like a hundred to 200 milligrams
in rodents yeah and the show I'm sorry
what would be the equivalent of a
hundred to 200 milligrams in a human on
a rodent model you know a lot of a lot
of the studies on supplementation think
same thing with TBI and concussion you
know you hear about DHA and fish oil for
that but you need to take a lot of fish
oil a lot of DHA like if you extrapolate
from the rodent models you're looking at
like 50 to 60 grams of DHA or fish oil
to manage like TBI or concussion which
is it's a lot of DHA but if you were
gonna use like a multi-modal approach
due to TBI or Alzheimer's or dementia
right I mean I'm a I'm a huge fan of
that I'm a fan of like hyperbaric oxygen
therapy
ketosis definitely works these these
light devices that you wear in your head
now they've got a lot of research coming
out on something called
photobiomodulation for TBI and these
things produce Hertz frequencies 10 to
40 Hertz range you place them on your
head typically there's like a probe that
goes into your nose and they've got new
research coming out on this for
restoring blood flow to the head
increasing your alpha brainwave
production your gamma brainwave
production very cool devices so what
does the probe up your nose do it
delivers a wavelength of light that is
supposed to activate part of the
mitochondria is called cytochrome C
oxidase and when you activate that you
get increased mitochondrial activity you
get increased blood flow you get
increased production of nitric oxide and
this kind of returns to what I was
talking about with seasonal affective
disorder where you can use a lot of a
lot of these new things that are
designed to deliver infrared light or
light to the body to increase
mitochondrial density or to increase
blood flow or to increase nitric oxide
and people are not using this for TBI
and concussion in stem cells as well
they've got a actually last time I was
on the show we were talking about how
when I got that concussion in Austin I
did a self-administered infusion of
sugar alcohols I used mannitol and then
I followed that up with stem cells
because that my stem cells stored down
in Florida and also in this lab called
forever labs in Berkley and I followed
that up I chased it with a stem cell
injection because when you inject sugar
alcohol into your
strain it renders your blood brain
barrier more permeable and then the stem
cells can cross over through the
blood-brain barrier oh but now hold on
slow down so this should your how you
what are you doing with sugar alcohol
how you administering it intravenously
in intravenous mannitol solution if you
do this yourself I do this myself but
you could get this done by a doctor and
when you're doing it elaborate I
recommend you get it done like it sounds
like a good idea I do yeah now what what
kind of dosage you using of mannitol
yeah I don't know it was it was what I
was advised to do by the doc who who
taught me this protocol so remember how
much it was but it was it was like a
vial yeah I do the same thing with nad
every week I do a weekly nad injection
everything it's a yeah push any minute
swish IV ten minutes is pushing it yeah
it hurt I mean so normally if you were
to get five hundred to a thousand
milligrams of nad most people will sit
under a four to A six hour drip IV to do
that mm-hmm and one reason for that that
they say is that you get less of it
degraded by the liver and the kidneys
and the gut as the NAD goes into the
body then it but I think I think that
the bigger factor is simply the fact
that when you do a push like you're
nauseous you feel like your whole body's
on fire I mean if you feel like Superman
afterwards but it's a very very
uncomfortable IV and I don't want
anybody pushing that and except me like
I want to be in charge of the trigger
when I'm putting that thing in because I
got to stop and go and stop and go but
it's it's it's quicker it's more
convenient than sitting down and doing
an IV so a push you would actually have
a nurse actually pushing down on the
button as things are going yeah yeah
exactly
and it's an intermittent intervals I do
about two like two ticks on the syringe
at a time because it's a 30 ml syringe
so I'll go like two cc's then stop and
you can feel like your heart rate go up
and you get nauseous and and your skin
kind of flushes a little bit and you
breathe it off then you wait like 10 15
seconds and you do another push how
clean if L like his guts were on fire
yeah Kyle I think is a champ I think he
did it in like five minutes or something
which is like for me if I if I can do it
in ten
minutes then I've it's it's absolutely
mind-blowing in terms of how hard that
is really I don't know how he did it in
five minutes but well he's a savage you
know it's interesting too I started to
listen to your podcast with David
Sinclair on the car ride over and he's
talking about this nmn stuff which
supposedly when orderly administered
simulates a lot of what an are
nicotinamide Rui beside which is one
thing that a lot of people are taking
for anti-aging and nad which is what we
were just talking about administered via
either in most cases it's IV there's a
couple companies doing like an oral nad
version but supposedly ma nmn I don't
know if Sinclair has any human studies
coming out on this right now but he or
or at least released but he's done
rodent studies and show mints like
exercise in a bottle mmm the NAD from
what I understand though and this
returns to the TBI concussion piece
crosses the blood-brain barrier easily
or more easily than nmn or NR so if you
were doing it for like a cognitive or a
neurological effect you may want to
choose nad sounds to me like from the
research I've seen if you were doing it
for the exercise effect maybe you choose
n MN or NR hmm interesting so me and I
aging effective a they don't even know
in many cases all the pathways on which
these things are working but most of
them are related to these certain
pathways where it like sirtuin
activating compounds that actually allow
your mitochondria to repair more quickly
or give your body more antioxidants so
the idea is they probably all have a
pretty good effect on anti-aging and
when you're doing it are you pushing
yourself you say you're doing it once a
week or you did it yourself are you
pushing it IV yeah and how much time to
yourself to actually do that yeah yeah
if I've got 20 minutes I'm happy like if
I have to compress in at 10 minutes it
hurts like I like to at least a lot for
20 minutes and then you follow it up in
most cases with like an IV cocktail like
a like a Meyers cocktail vitamin
cocktail and supposedly supposedly that
it does a few things supposedly it
enhances your stem cell mobilization or
the activity of stem cells and allows
the nd to be absorbed to the cells more
easily mmm so you basically I mean the
way I do it is I use it
just a butterfly needle and you do the
NAD administration and then you just
unscrew the the end of the butterfly
needle line and then you put the vitamin
cocktail and follow up with the vitamin
cocktail which takes like 30 to 60
seconds and then and why do you do it
once a week
you feel good no but why once a week why
not twice a week why the idea is you're
supposed to maintain your levels and
there's even some evidence and in it you
know this is kind of similar to
testosterone that long-term use may
suppress your body's own nad production
you're going to start to do it great but
you may want to realize that this is
something you'd need to do regularly I'm
going to keep your levels elevated
because you may get like a
down-regulation effect Oh interesting so
your body might recognize that it hasn't
a surplus that's not a lot of nad it
doesn't need to make more one of the one
of the very interesting things though I
did a couple of weeks ago as I went to
New York City and I got an ad from this
doctor dr. Chen over there but then he
infused me with Co Q 10 hmm and a bunch
of other vitamins to allow my body to
make more of what are called adult
pluripotent stem cells they're also
known as V cells very small embryonic
like cells now if you've heard of para
bios's before this idea of taking the
blood from young mice and transferring
that into old mice there was research
that they did at Stanford University on
this you impart essentially enhanced
longevity to the old mice the idea is
that's a that's a non Attalla ggest
transfer right like that's that that's
the transfer of blood from from a young
healthy donor into an older recipient
and there are companies now in Silicon
Valley doing this like the young blood
institute you know for like eight
thousand dollars this company called
ambrosia will will give you the plasma
from a young healthy donor is there any
evidence that that does anything good
for you though other than the studies
that they've done mice I don't know of
any studies on humans
yeah no is there anecdotal evidence
meaning people that you know of yeah I'm
about to to get into that you're gonna
saw but you haven't no I didn't
autologous version of that so I didn't
want to put somebody else's blood so we
didn't run body so what I did was I had
this doc take out a pint of my blood and
what happens is if you put all these
vitamins like nad and stuff into your
blood
it increases your stem cell production
if you stress the blood after that it
dumps out a bunch of these tiny little
adult pluripotent stem cells which is
exactly the same type of cell that
you're getting when you do one of these
young blood transfers so he stresses
that over night in cold you can use cold
you could use pressure you could use
anything to increase the stem cell
release from the blood cells but they
get stressed out they release stem cells
and then what happens is you get them
injected back into your body
so this is similar to like what they're
doing with Regina Kane I don't think
it's anything like that well you know
with John Keane they take the blood out
and they stress it with here and then
they spin it a few yeah and I think I
think and and I don't know a lot about
what Regina Keene is doing but I think
they're more concentrating the growth
factors I think they might be doing
exosomes I know they've got some
overseas places where they're doing like
a culture expanded or something like
that but as far as in the u.s. like this
this protocol is one of the few that I
know of where you could take your own
blood and get a lot of that same stuff
that you'd get from culture expanded or
from Parab iosys like using the blood of
somebody else and you get all these stem
cells released into your body so you
essentially get the same effect as you
would if you took young person's we did
a young blood transfer and the young
blood transfer they're not transferring
the entire body's supply of know that
they're taking they're taking a bunch of
plasma I don't know the volume that
they're using in my case they took a
pint of my blood so for right 460cc
tubes now is there any anecdotal
evidence or any published evidence on
your style that what you're trying to do
and the benefits of it no there's none
equals one I just felt like a million
bucks afterwards yeah the the other one
that I did that worked very well on my
knee cuz I have some meniscus issues on
my left knee was I did what's called a
nerve hydro dissection have you heard of
this before
hydro dissection is a protocol where
they take like a liquid and they use the
liquid to act like the scalpel or the
knife that a surgeon would use to kind
of remove adhesions like scar tissue
adhesions or separate a nerve that's
causing pain or discomfort or lack of
mobility in a certain joint but when
they do a nerve
dissection they don't have to use like
you know something like they'd use in
Provo therapy like sugar water regular
water what I had done and this was at a
clinic called bio reset in uh in San
Jose dr. Matt cook down there he went in
and did a nerve hydro dissection and he
used hose own and a placental cell it
wasn't like a culture expanded placental
cell which is what I understand to be
illegal in the US but just like a
regular placental extract he did that
into my knee and my knee went from like
25% to a hundred percent in a couple of
weeks I know that protocol was called
nerve hydro dissection they use
ultrasound imaging to to basically
visualize where the needle is going into
the knee they identify the area where
the adhesion or the scar tissue is they
inject it right there and I mean it's
like a 10-minute long procedure now this
is for only a buildup of adhesion and
scar tissue what about the people that
you know my it was doping yeah it was
developed for a Nerf pain and what they
found was that it actually seems to
cause some kind of a release of the scar
tissue followed by an increase in the
blood flow which is difficult to get in
some areas of the knee right so yes so
yeah I mean I would if I ever get to the
point where somebody wants to sculpt my
knee or something like that
I would I would definitely consider
doing that treatment first
it worked very well it was just quick
and easy I had a meniscus issue and I
got exosome shot into there I've had it
done three times yeah and every time
I've done it I've experienced a good
benefit from it then I beat the shit out
of it and I think I gave it not enough
time to heal up before I started
pounding again I would give it like a
week off and start running again yeah
but now I'm gonna give it a full six
weeks with no pounding no running hills
nothing crazy and I've experienced just
in the two weeks since the procedure a
very significant decrease in pain no
inflammation decreasing your discomfort
I have to like try to make it feel weird
now like go out of my way and it seems
like every week that's more and more
difficult to do and the range of motions
increased basically can go all
way down with my ass to my ankles with
no problem you know I bend all the way
down and back all the way up with no
discomfort no weirdness yeah I kind of
questioned the one thing because I've
asked myself this before and I don't
know if you have like when you get a
protocol like that done and he kind of
go easy on your knee cuz you really want
it to work and you start backing off of
some of that stuff you were doing
anyways how much of it is you just
backing off of what you were doing and
how much of it is the exosomes and small
cells I know because I did try to back
off initially and it didn't have
anything I could yeah when I when I
backed off initially with nothing I said
let me just take some time off and let
it see if I can let it heal up didn't
shit yeah it stayed exactly the same
like it was just hurt you know like so
it was one of those things where in the
past I would have had to just deal with
it yeah now this is my new world this is
my new feeling in my knee until I get it
scoped yeah so it's pretty significant
the impact that it's had I mean I'm a
giant believer in stem cells and
exosomes I had a full-length rotator
cuff tear my right shoulder and now it's
gone it's gone like it doesn't exist
anymore
and dr. Roddy Magee out of Vegas coat do
you know what he yea looked at the MRI
and he said to me he goes do you know
how fucking crazy that is like you had a
tear and your rotator cuff and now
there's no tear yeah I get to
regenerated tissue that's crazy which is
the ultimate goal right I mean now I
have zero pain in the shoulder I mean
nothing
did you deals like did you not have
rights belong I did peptides I did what
is it BP see one five seven yeah that
will be PC one five seven that that's
the only one that's that's still legal
according to you sada and wada for
athletes to use and that one decreases
inflammation and increases blood flow
and then the other one the one that
that's not allowed anymore is TB
five-hundredth Imus and beta 500 and
that one repairs are actin and myosin
fibers yeah so in a gold standard
protocol you go back and forth between
the two well switch it up one one day
just like inject subcutaneously near the
side of injury no it works for a lot of
people but peptides are weird like I'm
attending all these anti aging and
longevity conferences now because I want
to learn a lot more about
someone was kind of I'm kind of starting
to pivot from just pure human
performance to how can you how can you
live a long time mm-hmm and talk to
Sinclair yeah
yeah well I want to finish listening to
your interview with him that was very
fast yeah so the the idea is that these
peptides are talked about a lot now in
these anti-aging circles like they've
got weird names like like epital on is
one and two times a year like a ten to
twenty day injection protocol of epital
on there getting a bunch of increased
mitochondrial density decreased markers
of aging increased fat loss increased
muscle gain and they've done that in
humans hmm and so again it's just a
peptides very easy like you you would
inject it next to your abdominals
subcutaneously there's another one you
know side effects this one uh not with
that one but this one called melanotan
have you heard of it before
no so I was intrigued by this somebody
was telling me about it it's a it's a
peptide and it was used in the
bodybuilding industry for a long time
because when you inject it it gives you
like this amazing pan and I called
melanotan it stimulates your melanin is
that that lady that was on that fucking
show that was turning black she believed
that she was yeah the wrong skin so she
was shooting something into her body and
she got black like Congo black well I
tried it out I tried it out for about a
week did you try to get black no I
didn't try to get black just wanted to
see what happened to the tan I started
to get some freckles but the side effect
of this is you get massive boners that
lasts a really annoying ly long time so
your baby like you can't say no but
people will use this is like almost like
like an IDI you have a drug right but it
and I don't even know the mechanism of
action like I don't know how it's even
working well it's giving you a black so
basically you get yeah you get a tan and
boners yeah I don't know that's not how
you would administer Milano tank which
is she's doing some kind of like a vol
she might learn what is that thing that
she's doing with a syringe what that
looks like a caulking gun like what is
she doing picture yeah there's another
type of thing like the Kardashians are
doing to their
cheeks like the fillers I don't know
what they're doing cheeks they're doing
something that seems like well it's very
popular with the young people these days
they're taking fat out of certain parts
of their body and putting it in their
ass right it's not I don't listen
we should find out that's getting diaper
but just Google how are women today
how are Instagram models getting diaper
but I'm curious because that's what it
is it's what you're using their own so
they're taking their fat from somewhere
else on their body yes
injecting that I know that some people
do that we should know some our calves
that way we could start at Instagram
calf channel no I don't want fat calves
with a jiggle and walk like a girl's
butt well he's pulling that up what kind
of coffee is this this is black rifle
coffee it's good yeah it's good stuff
yeah I know I figured out something
thank you by the way for hooking me up
with Trager oh that's great all right I
was trying to more lines those are the
shit I've been making a coffee rub for
this time and coffee rub before yes I
have shaker has their own coffee rub
yeah well they they have their own I
love you Trager but they sometimes never
know what all is in some of these spices
and rubs you know and sometimes you know
multi-deck scenario or instance yeah
there's some sugar in there so I find
fine grind coffee and I mix that with
black Kona salt cayenne pepper and
paprika and you can just make that rub
as thick as you want put that on the
ribeye and I've almost switched
completely from doing my my stovetop
sear followed by the quick broil on
either side to doing like a
one-and-a-half to two hours smoke in the
Trager
mmm that coffee rub on and then just
finishing it on the grill with the
Trager yeah I did a what would you call
it a prime rib you know it so it's that
it's basically ribeye roast yeah and I
did one on the trigger and I cooked it
for like four hours at 220 degrees holy
shit you smoked it yeah four hours yes
yes and it had does the traitor smoke
yes I smoked at that temperature you
know this is a super smoked setting at
225 and below okay press the super smoke
button and it constantly infuses this
pump of smoke look at
like it's like whoa I've never tried
super smoke at that high of a
temperature oh good lord
delicious dude and the but the Trager
prime rib rub I know it as sugar in its
taste - delicious - not but holy shit
when it's in there for three and a half
four hours and it has that crust on it
there's some words some about that long
smoke if you try to beer can chicken
yeah nothing at all yes beer can chicken
so I've tried a bunch of different rubs
on that but it's just coarse salt and
black pepper works fine for the beer can
chicken you empty about half of the beer
can out you open up the beer can but
then you poke a couple extra holes and
the top so you get more of the steam so
the inside of the chicken gets even more
moist but then when I figured out is if
you use like a little little scalpel or
exacto knife and you cut open the skin
of the chicken around the outside a
little bit and you stuff that with pads
of butter and then you do your smoke
pads of butter inside the chicken that
the skin gets crispy
super crispy and so you just it's like I
think it's like an hour an hour and a
half you cook that one and you can't you
can't smoke that one very successful
like you want to run the grill with the
smoke on but you can't super smoke it
doesn't seem to work so well but that
beer can chicken that's freaking amazing
yeah whoever figured that out whatever
drunk figured that out is goddamn genius
know what I'm gonna do it works but I've
wondered before if there are other
things that will work even better than
beer well you got Jamie it says in most
cases what I'm finding is either
brazilian butt-lift or just like a fat
graft or fat injection mm-hmm but there
have been cases where I'm seeing that
they had to get an injection taken out
within weeks because it was causing a
problem so like I don't know if that was
just fat well you got the fat put in and
you have to get a ticket back out yeah
cuz they're gonna they're dying the
Abarth great and then you have this
fucking war zone of an ass yeah most is
like leave some mark Syrian a few pox
air strip yeah yeah no more no more
g-string 32 people died supposedly in
2017 from wonderful yeah yeah that's
like the same amount of people that died
from coconuts fall on their head
that's a fucking ridiculous way to die
you know and here's the thing the what
they're doing is not aesthetically
pleasing because it violates your
sensibilities because you look at the
ass and you look at the legs and you go
what's wrong here how did you get that
ass with those legs they don't go
together like if you look at like a
CrossFitters legs like one of them
powerful gals with a big butt but they
all saw us with those knee high knee on
compression socks it looks right it fits
like if the ass it's the thigh it's not
entirely disproportionate yes when the
ass pumps out and then it goes these
little toothpick legs you like
that's gross that's weird you know like
it was possible that's real ass
Instagram we may be evolving as a
species to find these type of things
more attractive though because that's a
whole idea with social medias you get a
dopamine hit every time you click on the
little blue notification button or you
look at a new photo so maybe we're just
gonna eventually develop a real
appreciation for that type of symmetry
no will redefine alright no no what true
human symmetry is incorrect it doesn't
look as good it just doesn't look as
good it's a it's a cheap fix your squats
yeah get your ass to the gym girls do
some donuts
run up so alright so squats and muscle
building did you see that Rhonda Patrick
tweeted that study about mice and my own
nuclei and how when they when they dope
mice they actually they they never
actually lose the muscles my own nuclei
yeah it's like those don't actually ever
disappear it's not never just when you
dope which is when you lift period
muscle memories yeah already known right
also memory muscle memories always been
a sort of an anecdotal idea well muscle
memory has been in many cases just based
on motor unit recruitment like meaning
like like my wife she ran for university
of idaho and when i go out running with
her still even though she doesn't train
she just got faster leg turnover she's
got better form like her body just
remembers that the same thing with the
swimmer right
do a triathlon somebody swam in college
but hasn't swam in ten years we'll kick
my ass just because they have that
muscle memory the in terms of which
which motive units to recruit when sure
but this latest one was basically the
idea that you retain actual my own
nuclei in the muscle like they thought
for a long time that those just
disappeared and went away once you D
train but it turns out that they're all
still there so as soon as you start
training again you build muscle more
quickly and furthermore and this was
kind of like the political part of it is
if you've done some kind of you know
illegal performance-enhancing procedure
or steroids or doped or whatever you
actually would have a higher
concentration of micro nuclei or my own
nuclei available there there was a
studies and leading up to that and this
was I think this was like 2013 like this
was a while ago where they took mice and
they gave one group testosterone the
other group didn't get it and then they
spent six months off testosterone I
remember how long they were on it but
they spent six months off it and then
they took those mice and they trained
them with the training protocol and the
mice that were on the testosterone but
were no longer on it had a 30% increase
in muscle mass compared to the other
mice that only had a 5% increase on it
so once again and this was probably
related at my own nuclei thing that just
came out in this recent study so it
turns out that a you should you should
live like when you're young because you
can build all these my own nuclei that
just basically hang around your body and
then be when they like ban somebody from
sport for doping and then they come back
and start to compete in that sport again
they still have an advantage hmm well
that has huge implications for MMA is
this that's the big debate right now how
long should someone get suspended for
and for how long
you know how long afterwards should they
be considered enhanced yeah you know
like they're giving people some pretty
significant suspensions now for steroids
like two years but you know there's this
John Jones case I'm sure you're aware of
the aware of this yeah where he's
testing positive for the metabolites for
a long-term metabolite for a very small
dose he's never tested positive for
short-term metabolite 4 testosterone no
it's not testosterone it's what is the
stuff Torana ball yeah and essentially
it's tainted supplement and it's not it
doesn't have any performance enhancing
benefit in terms of like the the amount
of the dosage that he's tested positive
for but it's lingering in his system
because the protocols for the weather
ability rather to detect these
metabolites has increased rapidly and
over the last year it's just
unbelievably more sensitive to the point
where you know they're detecting these
infinitesimally small levels of these
metabolites and there's also seems to be
some sort of a pulsing effect when your
body releases these infinitesimally
small metabolites and then doesn't so
you'll test negative and then the next
week you'll test positive but only for
the long-term metabolites which is an
indication there's no readmit astray
ssin of the performance-enhancing drug
yeah so it's real it's it's and
everybody's mad there's some of the
athletes that are mad about it and from
what you're saying and for this study
that dr. Rhonda Patrick highlighted it's
you know it's it's a willingly taking
something of those like once a doper
always a doper type of things there is
that but see the John Jones situation is
very tricky because he's so good and
he's so dominant the people just assume
that he's been doing something his whole
career yeah you know and when you catch
him they're like AHA that's the reason
why he's so good yeah it may be but it
also might be he's got phenomenal
genetics he's too much it was just the
best of the guys who are taking drugs
that's a different situation because
that's a sport where at least in the
time period where he was competing
everyone was doing something a hundred
percent they had to go needles like that
it's not right that it's not it's not it
can't be
they're too strict the you sod is
knocking on doors at six o'clock in the
morning pee in this Cup and you you do
hear about positive tests but the amount
of positive tests versus the negative
tests is overwhelming way more guys are
not doing something it used to be the
opposite he used to be in the 90s
everyone was doing something yeah we
were just talking about this in the
fight companion podcast that a big issue
is grappling grappling competitions are
over
with steroid users because no one's
testing and these I mean it's the smell
test is off the fucking charts you're
looking at these guys they're just
ridiculous jacked yeah low body fat
super high muscle mass and they're
training jiu-jitsu all the time too so
you would think it would be very hard
for them to maintain muscle mass as well
as be trained the way they're training
with technique and drills and cardio
very difficult to maintain muscle yeah
any any concurrent strength endurance
training scenario very difficult very
difficult so there's a real issue with
some of these guys competing this way
and then trying to transition into MMA
yeah now what what's the deal with
marijuana in the mmm in MMA much legal
now the they don't inches in out of
season yeah it's fine
they just they've lowered the acceptable
level or that they've raised it rather
like what you could have in your
bloodstream you basically just can't be
high the day of the fight yeah yeah and
that's another interesting one I mean
that acts especially THC acts on a lot
of these mTOR pathways you know this
that's that's the same thing with a lot
of these anti-aging compounds right like
rapamycin or you know metformin to a
lesser extent axon that mTOR pathway and
inhibits it right but again it's it's
short term with something like marijuana
and you also get this pain killing
effect and there was I forget if this
was a study or if it was if it was like
anecdotal but it's almost like a higher
thrill-seeking effect like the
endocannabinoid system when stimulated
shuts down some of your your your sense
of fear when it comes to experiencing a
new adventure really and so you actually
actually go adventure seeking more and
when you look at like ultrarunners
anybody who's competing in a non complex
activity in which they might have
already developed the ability to be able
to be in the zone right they've put in
their ten thousand hours of practice and
they're able to just kind of check out
and go into automatic mode when you
combine that with the pain quelling
effects of something like you know in
most cases like a THC CBD combo is what
a lot of ultra runners are using I'm not
sure
what what they'd use in MMA right now
but ultimately you get a good effect but
but the loss of reaction time and the
loss of the ability to be able to
perform complex tasks which they proven
like flight simulation studies dictates
that it's still not that great of a drug
if you were going to be doing complex
tasks here's the question though when
they're talking about reaction studies
nothing talking about reaction studies
for people that are acclimated to taking
marijuana are they talking about it with
people where they take uh someone who's
a sober person and they introduced them
to marijuana and there's this
overwhelming effect of it because one of
the things that happens to people that
aren't accustomed to THC is the freakout
effect yeah where they're just like
they're not comfortable with the
experience after a while the way it's
described and again this is all
anecdotal but by people that are
accustomed to it they say you just get
good at being high and see the reaction
time thing I don't buy because a lot of
Strykers a lot of kickboxers they train
but while they're on marijuana it's very
common a lot of leave it I mean this one
reaction time was done on pilots and
there's there's a few more blinky lights
in a cockpit than than a mat sure
there's more going on sure but that's
the the question is are they experienced
owners or people that are freaking out
and maybe the reaction times they're
spacing out and they don't know what the
fuck this experience is like and they're
they might have anxiety because of it
you know there's a lot of really
overwhelming sensations that come with
that marijuana high and a lot of them
you know you call paranoia or
oversensitivity and sometimes you get
paralysis by analysis when you're under
the influence those things work yeah
it's the acute versus chronic effect but
jiu jitsu personally my personal
experience would you Jitsu in marijuana
is it's an enhancer and I've argued this
that I think it's a
performance-enhancing wit with CBD
you know with CBD no just just marijuana
that's that's what that's what a lot of
endurance athletes are you know like
like folks in the ultra running
complainers and now like they'll use
like a trace amount of THC combined with
CBD like an 4 to 1 to a 10 to 1 cou THC
ratio and I think you know now with the
farm bill and increasing legality I
think this idea of developing
which performance supplements for
athletes you know who aren't competing
in sports yeah that is banned are gonna
be steered in the direction of like high
CBD and then some of these other novel
molecules where like CBG or CBN I'm not
sorry what are the others there's all
these different okay now but no it's
just terpenes yeah CBG cbn or
cannabinoids THC eight is an
anti-inflammatory that's totally
different than THC nine I'm gonna lace
from orally ingesting at or from smoking
it or maybe they actually are now
isolating these and labs almost like
organic chemistry and you you can take
hemp or marijuana and you can actually
isolate specific compounds and then
combine them so you could take like you
could take like CBG CBD combine that
with other terpenes from like whatever
let's say lavender and valerian and
chamomile and make like a like a
de-stress relaxation type of compound or
you could do like a like a THC but a THC
eight instead of a THC nine and combine
that with like cinnamon and peppermint
maybe some caffeine or creatine or
something like that to make like more of
a pick-me-up type of compound but I
think that's that's the wave of the
future when it comes to a lot of these
these marijuana companies that are
developing stuff for specific goals I
know a lot of folks that are trying the
CBD that use it for information
especially athletes like it a little bit
of THC they seem to think it's more
effective you know there's some sort of
combined effect of the THC with the CBD
yeah yeah they call that the the
entourage effect you know when you have
all the different terpenes and the
endocannabinoids which ones turtle yeah
which ones turtle have no clue so
there's hundreds of different different
cannabinoids right I don't think there's
hundreds what I think there's at least
dozens I don't know about hundreds how
many of them I mean if you if you look
at a chart of the different
endocannabinoids they've actually
discovered if you're to just google 113
yeah yeah so it's a lot it's a lot of
fucking cab annoyed I wonder you know I
wonder if they'll be able to like design
something that gives you the high
without the paranoia or gives you the
you know various effects
yeah without spacing out yeah I think
that's that's where supplementation is
going
in general right it's just like we were
talking about with diet how based on
your genetics based on your blood work
based on your biomarkers that's how you
would choose your diet I mean like you
know like the carnivore diet if you're
if you're let's say like sub-saharan
African or Southeast Asian and you have
high levels of you know there are genes
for salivary amylase there's one called
a my one gene there are genes
responsible for you having a higher
inflammatory response to saturated fat
or a ketogenic diet or there's one
called the appo each gene you have only
three for which I have dictates that
even though I personally did kind of
like a higher fat low carbohydrate diet
the majority of my fats come from
Mediterranean fat sources doesn't olive
oil avocado oil fish and I do that
because my genetics dictate that you
know my macronutrient ratio my diet is
gonna is gonna be best suited to that
specific ratio of fats but you could say
the same thing with supplements you know
I think with supplements now with with
all these different places that will
self quantify you know I like wellness
FX an inside track or in 23andme and you
can you can take all this data put it
together and actually determine you know
whatever my everybody's saying was
supposed to take two thousand
international units of vitamin D a day
if your vitamin D levels aren't like 80
or 90 then that could cause arterial
calcification if you're taking excess
vitamin D I had both myself and my kids
tested for our genetics like none of us
boys in the Greenfield family actually
have the gene that allows us to generate
appreciable amounts of vitamin D from
sunlight so we all now supplement with
vitamin K my boys neither of them
possess the enzyme or the or the I guess
it is an enzyme superoxide dismutase
it's a just gene that allows for
increased expression of this enzyme that
allows for glutathione production right
so they take glutathione now
they have the one that results in a
lower than normal level BDNF
brain-derived neurotrophic factor the
stuff that's like Miracle Grow for the
brain so they use lion's mane extract
now
for school so I like the idea of doing a
genetic test and doing a blood test and
looking at what your ancestors would
have eaten if you happen to have the I
guess kind of like it clean enough to
interpret ancestral profile to be able
to say well here's you know I'm mostly
northern European so this is what I'm
gonna do well on you combine all that
stuff I think you know return to your
question about the carnivore diet that's
the way to eat this apoe4 is also leaves
you predisposed to CTE correct yeah yeah
or you have that higher risk now I've
got the a PO e 3 n 3 4 3 4 apoe4 4 is
the one that's more concerning from okay
yeah and you get a very deleterious
response in many cases to to fats it's
like an inflammatory response to fats
that's something very similar like if
you had familial hypercholesterolemia
you know and you get on like a ketogenic
diet for example and your cholesterol
goes up to 500 I mean it did it's
something that just doesn't agree with a
lot of people yeah that's what's really
important to discuss right the
everybody's body really does respond
differently to all sorts of different
diets and yeah it's so difficult for
people especially if they don't have a
lot of research in the field if they
don't you know they don't they haven't
read a lot about it to try to determine
what's the best diet for them yeah there
there are there are specific
characteristics though that regardless
of macronutrient ratios and regardless
of food composition you see over and
over again in centenarians or in people
who are living in a blue zone or people
who have the absence of a lot of disease
risk factors or a high risk of mortality
like we see regular periods of caloric
restriction like at some point either a
compressed feeding window or
intermittent fasting or like you know
the Mediterranean diet everybody talks
about goat cheese and olive oil and fish
and eggs but not a lot of people talk
about the religious aspect of that that
includes certain periods of time where
you fast certain periods of time where
you don't eat meat certain days where
you aren't drowning all your food in
olive oil right and so um you know it's
it's a
in terms of other characteristics that
you see glycemic variability right you
see very low periods of glucose
fluctuations occurring throughout the
day because of a high intake of either
fiber or legumes is a big one that you
see in the Blue Zones right like high
intake of things like lentils and split
mung beans and a lot of these things
that get thrown under the bus now we're
we're talking about lectins and gut
damage but ultimately returning back to
what I said earlier soaking and
sprouting and fermentation makes a lot
of those things really not aware that
were the issues with so the issue with
lectins and this is based on on a book
that was published I think about two
years ago called the plant paradox by
dr. Stephen Gundry and he talks about
how lectins are these built in natural
plant defense mechanisms that are in
primarily plants and seeds and the skins
of certain fruits and vegetables that
will cause your digestive tract to
become damaged or give you a deleterious
or inflammatory response to that food
kind of a similar argument as the Paleo
people make right they say well you
don't don't eat dairy because that could
have inflammatory proteins in it that
might cause an autoimmune reaction or or
to donate bread because of the gluten
and the phytic acid but when you step
back and you look at a lot of a lot of
Blue Zones a lot of longevity hotspots a
lot of centenarians you don't see
avoidance of these foods you see smart
preparation of them right when you hunt
you don't set up in a tree with a like a
dagger in your teeth like Peter Pan and
jump out of the tree on the back of a
deer and and you know just start eating
the deer right like you have to go
through a pretty long process of
tracking and stalking and hunting and
and filled dressing and quartering and
even then you know there's a pretty
intensive cooking process and we do
things like you know like coffee rubs
and things to decrease the amount of
carcinogens and the meat when you cook
it and and we dry aged and you'll take
the organ meats and soak them in lemon
juice or buttermilk something holding
any flavor and blah blah blah but stop
stop stop okay hold on I got to do this
guy otherwise I forget coffee rubs what
is it how does it decrease the amount of
carcinogens well
Coffee rosemary thyme a lot of these
things that we use as rubs one of the
benefits of them is they decrease the
formation of a lot of these carcinogenic
compounds in the meat you know like the
burnt charred components of the meat
anything that's an antioxidant right and
you could you could just go in your
spice cover and start to make up rubs
based on this concept anything that
would be you know these certain
precursors that people are talking about
now for anti-aging like blueberries and
red wine and dark chocolate and dark
purple fruits and berries etc you dry
those you powder those that's a great
rub right because all of a sudden you're
decreasing the carcinogenic aspects of
burnt meat or charred meat or heavily
cooks proteins particularly so the idea
is you want to prepare your food in a
manner that renders it digestible and
that unlocks the nutrients and so when
we talk about dietary customization not
only do you see calorie restriction
compressed feeding windows fasting as
one element that regardless of the diet
that you choose has been shown to
improve health and lifespan but you also
see low amounts of glycemic variability
you see a high amount of emphasis placed
on rendering the food digestible again
no matter what it is that you're eating
and so you know whether you're eating a
ketogenic diet or a carnivore diet or a
high carb low fat high fat low carb
what-have-you the idea is you try to
choose real recognizable food then you
render that digestible and you eat as
many different food groups as you can
eat based on self-experimentation
primarily until you land on that diet
that works well for you and if you can
combine that with self quantification
blood biomarkers look at your microbiome
look at your genetics I mean there's no
reason that that most people shouldn't
just be able to eat the diet that works
for their body but it's a hard thing to
discover the the idea that you can
figure out what works best for you like
what feels best like people start
convincing themselves you know that one
thing is more beneficial to other and
that's one of the things that people
wonder about this whole carnivore thing
it was like are they mind fucking
themselves are they giving themselves a
placebo benefit of only eating this way
yeah and you just go to Sean Baker's
Instagram every day
the hashtag meat heals and you're like
yes meats healing me and you start bribe
it's a try a church it's a religion it's
a nutritionist highly religious and
dogmatic well the the carnivore diet
people are the exact opposite of the
vegan people they're the same but
different there they're all just
preaching that you should only meat and
meats the thing and you know and they're
mocking vegans and the vegans are
mocking the coward you know saying
disparaging things about people who eat
meat it's really similar issue is the
same thing though it's the fact that
when you start on a highly restrictive
diet that tends to be dogmatic to like
I'm gonna wholly eat meat I'm not gonna
have meat I'm gonna only eat vegetables
you feel pretty good like you feel a
difference it's impossible not to feel a
difference once you go go completely
myopic on your diet and have a very
limited number of food choices but we
know that vegans build up deficits in
creatine in taurine in you know unless
they're eating algae and stuff like that
in DHA in EPA in fatty acids and amino
acids long term deficits and cortisol
which affects your cell membranes you
can definitely do it right I mean
there's dudes like you know freakin rich
roll right like great guy and he tin and
he's into like the you know fermentation
soaking and sprouting it's superfoods
and you know it's honestly kind of
expensive and time-consuming to do a
vegan diet the right way but you could
do it a lot of people don't but if
you're not careful you build up deficits
long term even though you feel really
good short term it's the same thing with
something like a carnivore diet like
you're probably gonna build up some kind
of microbiome bacterial deficiencies
unless you're eating the intestines of
ruminants or I suppose supplementing
with some kind of really good probiotic
well it's just fascinating because they
they find these people that have been
doing it for 20 years they they pull
these folks out of the woods look look
we got this one guy he's been doing it
for 18 years look how healthy they are
they so show someone doing chin-ups but
the reality is you don't really hear
about that diet or you didn't really
hear about that diet until like three or
four years ago right and much more so
over the last two years probably because
of me accidentally know having all these
people on and talking about it and it's
it and you know the people like Jordan
that have had look it's impossible to
deny the benefits that he's gotten the
guy looks fantastic it has a tremendous
amount of weight and
to your point that is most likely
because of an elimination diet and
whatever was fucking with him before and
I think you know most people that start
off with a poor diet and then switched
to a restricted diet they're just gonna
be better because they don't have the
stuff that's poor they don't have the
trans fats they don't have all the sugar
they don't have all the nonsense it's
probably causing a good deal the
information in the first place
so by eliminating all those bad things
from their diet and then concentrating
on the one thing that they all the only
one thing that they're eating you think
the one thing they're eating is causing
all the benefits when it's probably the
lack of the bad things exactly it's a
it's a fancy elimination diet so but
it's a delicious one it is speaking of
delicious who are you hunting at all yes
yes I what's your hunt well I mean I'm
going through the two elk that I've
given away a lot of it to and I shot
last year every year I scheduled two elk
hunts and assumed I'm gonna strike out
and the last two years I've been very
lucky and I got two elk each year so
that's breaking the rules of the secret
and Think and Grow Rich you know to
assume you're gonna strike out well I
supposed to sit cross-legged in your son
and manifest that shadows I don't yeah I
work hard but I assume it's a hard thing
to do to fucking know it people don't
realize now they don't and you look at a
clip like there's clips of me online and
the clip is like a minute long and it
seems like oh look look how easy
yeah you don't see stalking in for hours
you don't see the hundreds of hours of
shooting arrows the coaching from John
Dudley all the reading archery articles
and understanding what in keeping your
mindset clear in the moment it's a lot
of difficult to long haul my boys have
their first hunt in three months okay
and we've been prepping for seven months
they're doing bow hunt in Kona pig oh my
wife she's going after sheep how old
were you have to pay to ten so are you
getting him a crossbow
no no there right now they're shooting a
Hoyt ignite mm-hmm um they're shooting
at about 25 yards just a shooting at
about 40 yards how many I live in London
they're about 45 now which is gonna be
enough that's enough if you have oh yeah
but I mean there's no contact I mean
they're still when they when they
draw they're pulling so I've still got a
couple more months of training to really
get dialed in um but yeah it's it's
difficult I still haven't even gotten my
elk bow hunting you know I spent my last
one I spent six days up in the Colorado
mountain range and the the what they
called the Santa - crystal range mm-hmm
you know and and on the last day I
finally came in on elk and it was dark
and I shot and I missed mmm and that was
after seven fricking days of trying and
you walk out tougher I was the show ride
your horse out completely empty-handed
it's about 45 yards you know you know in
dusk but you know I mean you know how it
goes you shake until dark and yeah yeah
anyways though so I'm gonna do I'm gonna
do Kona I would like to get you in touch
with Dudley because I know we've talked
before I know how you shoot you shoot
with a finger trigger shooter yeah yeah
I need to it's it's on my list but those
moments like that when you you're hunted
for six days and you just trekking
through the woods 20 miles a day and
you're exhausted and you finally get
that one moment there's so much weight
on that moment that yeah it's so
difficult to stay focused entirely on
the task of executing the shot perfectly
and there's methods there's a guy named
Joel Turner who has he's got a website
called iron mine hunting he's a he's a
he's an instructor for first responders
and snipers and things along those lines
iron mined iron mine where's he live I
think he's a Pacific Northwest guy
really and he's helped me tremendously
his methods it's all about keeping a the
difference between an open-loop system
and a closed-loop system being able to
control it and stop it and stop the
process anytime you want and keeping
yourself and that versus like a baseball
bat swing which is going to start
swinging you to swinging yeah and the
idea is to maintain the present empty to
have a mantra and he gives you a mantra
to chant and to think about it in terms
of controlling all of those movements so
you are in control kind of your move
well you you
develop your own but the idea is to talk
yourself through it
don't let your excitable mind take over
you didn't freak out and you pull the
trigger and you shoot fuckin over the
things back and you don't even know what
happened what's your mantra it lost I I
pull back and I say draw I go through
all the steps in my head that I'm
supposed to do I actually modified his
and went to John Dudley's so his he has
his own one which is draw back and aim
get it done watch it to keep it in the
hide is just keeping those things in
your head so you have one thing but what
would Dudley I go through all the
different things that he says like draw
back tip of the nose Center the peep
Center the bubble pull through the shot
pull pull pull let the shop break and so
I go through all those things in my mind
but the whole idea is did not allow the
freaked out freaked out is what causes
the target panic and when you have that
itchy trigger finger with the the finger
trigger you'll go yeah and that's that's
I've done it I mean I've seen it I've
seen it I've heard it everybody does it
the arrow goes in the spot you know
where you're yanking it and you're point
eight it's not very precise you want to
get it to where it's a surprise shot
yeah and when it's a surprise shot
you're just concentrating entirely on
the area that you want to hit on the elk
your form is perfect everything's
aligned in order and if it's not you let
down yeah if it's not you let down and
try to get your shit together yeah see
those trained to hunt competitions
helped me out quite a bit I'm sure it's
like a 3d shoot but you're turning
around and getting exhausted well no not
really like like there they do have part
of it as like that like an obstacle
course race with your bow but then part
of it too is just a 3d shoot mmm but
like a like a 40 target 3d shoot where
one shot might be I'm facing you but the
targets behind me and you've got a
ten-second time span to draw turn and
shoot where you got to take a shot
seated through the trees at 40 yards and
then within you know 20 seconds do a
shot at 60 so they would slaughter
hunting scenario
Dudley would tell you that that is gonna
cause target panic that that whole thing
of shoot now that you should never just
do that that you should always execute
the shot correctly even he doesn't even
like this fucking game
this thing this techno hunt that we've
done he doesn't like that he thinks that
that thing causes target panic because
you only have a brief window and you
like go he's like he believes that you
should concentrate entirely on the
correct fundamentals and execution of
archery and then with time and
understanding of the situation the
experience of hunting itself then when
those moments present themselves
you're gonna execute correctly whereas
when you have this like 10 second you
got to turn and behind your back ready
go do you like BA yes you're just gonna
hit that you're gonna hammer that
trigger you're gonna put that pin on the
target and Hammer that trigger and
that's just you are emphasizing all the
wrong things that you could do when
you're hunting yeah yeah let me go to
Hawaii next month and do sheep which
island go to Ireland is B Kona Cohen I'm
gonna do if I like to go down there
because you can spear fish you can you
can double up into moment spear fish so
we'll do sheep and goat pig possibly
Turkey and then we'll have a couple days
out on the boats and that'll be actually
Kyle and Aubrey are going oh yeah yeah
I'll be was talking about Peter T is
good come with us well the doctor on the
trip oh yeah and then the one I'm
excited about is dall sheep up in Alaska
so I'm gonna do the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge that's a float hunt so
you're floating about 40 miles down the
river I'm very fly into into Fairbanks
and there's a fort that you fly in from
there on a charter and that'll be dall
sheep caribou and grizzly this is it's a
ten day hunt and this is a bow hunt as
well that'll be a bulb we'll all be all
pack like I've got a ya got a Smith &
Wesson 44 it's a big-ass gun so I'll
pack that and there's probably have a
272 on the faith like if I can make
weight when are you hunting weapons are
you just avoiding them no I'm hunting
dall sheep God that's what I really want
that's just an adventurous I'm not much
of a trophy hunting guy but I am an
adventure guy like I want to
and have an amazing adventure let's
explain to people why that's an
adventure because the the the place
where these live is some of the fucking
sketchiest ground on earth it's shale
rock a lot of it you have to a lot of
times you're wearing crampons on your
boots you're an extremely high altitude
in precarious situations these little
cliff peaks long pack outs I'll have a
caribou tag and grizzly tag as well so
to shoot a grizzly because it's charging
you or to shoot a group that would
actually be to harvest and eat a grizzly
the guy I'm actually pretty you know I'm
a cook
look at those dall sheep yeah exactly
exactly so that is an adventure right
there to be able to get to those little
specks on that rock so I'll be floating
the river we'll be fishing
they got arctic char up there few other
fish beautiful fish yeah so he's a fatty
fish cold water it'll be about 10 to 12
days and then I'll just fly all the meat
out and fly a home now
grizzly as a meal that's the thing that
where people are hearing this and
they're going what the fuck are you
talking about and I had Donnie Vincent
on the podcast he's a he's a really
interesting guy very well educated and
really really articulate and really like
like Rinella in a lot of ways does a
great job of explaining what hunting
truly is about and the conservation
aspect of it but he's a big fan of
eating bear and he's oh he's telling
people like you know they're all good
like if you prepare correctly all bears
good yeah apparently the trick is to to
get rid of the glands early on when
you're field dressing because apparently
that taints the meat hmm and I've never
field dressed a bear so I don't know but
um Stephen Rinella though I love his
cookbooks he's close to me he's up in
he's up in Bozeman yeah I think yeah
I've been trying to get him to come
through Spokane and swing into my house
to do a podcast so I want to actually
ask him some questions about his it was
a new cookbook yeah yeah we've connected
we've talked a few times I see guys guy
get him to come through Spokane I love
that guy yeah he's the one who got me
the honey yeah yeah that's fun though
yeah he's a great cook - he really is he
really understands like
so many different preparations and tries
to get people to try things like osso
bucco you know they braise the shanks
and yeah yeah yeah yeah I love that no
how about spearfishing have you gotten
into into those fishing free diving
scene at all I was in Hawaii recently my
youngest daughter is obsessed with
fishing she fucking loves it and we
caught a bunch of yellowtail when we
were in Hawaii this last trip and now
she's super hooked cuz you know she's
eight and she's hanging on to this rod
and you know I mean I was sometimes I
was helping her like I was holding the
rod and she was with her two little arms
cranking these yellow tails and you know
you catch a 10-pound yellowtail when
you're eight years old and the fucking
that's all right oh my god they're so
powerful it's a fight I took my boys out
for steelhead yeah and you know my my
boy Taryn he almost got pulled into the
water on North Fork of the Clearwater
big steelhead I mean those things are
massive
what is it deals Meghan's deal we're not
supposed to eat them right you're
supposed to let them go it depends
there's a certain I forget that I forget
the color but there's a certain style of
steelhead that you are allowed to he had
to throw this one bag this wasn't the
one I don't I don't totally understand
that I mean I kind of understand it but
it seems to me like it is it's an ocean
bound rainbow trout correct yeah exactly
so why can't you eat I don't know I
don't know then and there's there's a
certain variety that you actually can't
eat well you you can eat it physically
but you know I mean I mean legally yeah
but that seems so strange to me is the
idea to protect the population because
they're in the process of breeding and
you don't wanna interrupt but you're not
there's a certain mortality rate that
they're accepting with catch and release
this is one of the reasons why I have an
issue with that and I've done catch and
release fishing I don't want to appear
like I'm a hypocrite cause it is fun but
there's a thing about it is like you're
just shoving a hook and in things face
yeah and then releasing them that's that
is why I like spear fishing because
you're underwater you're going after the
exact fish that you want yeah there's no
doubt in your mind I'm gonna shoot that
fish and you're not wondering what's
gonna bite the hook right like whether
it's gonna be a legal one mm-hmm or an
illigal one regardless of whether you
get a fish it's amazing you're happy you
see the coral you're getting you know
you're going down
and up there's there's all like if
you're in the fitness the cold
thermogenesis and the breath hold and
the spleen compression and the red blood
cell production so I mean it's it's an
amazing workout mm-hmm um it's just fun
it's a Zen
yeah they wouldn't let my daughter do it
though she's too young they said you
have to be 13
so Spearfish should tell you like
shallow water with a singing and that's
that's the way to do it is you want to
start offshore 8 to 15 feet of water you
want to easy sling you know a lot of
people think spear fishing and they
think of like the big roller guns that
you gotta like put the handle against
your chest and pull back right it's very
difficult and then you got a dive to
depths you know for if you're going
after tuna yeah I mean will it go like
30-plus feet and you have a floater and
it's a very involved process but if
you're just like in freakin Hawaii and
you've got a sling and a good spot and
some coral and some good fins and you
can just basically swim away mom you
know I'll tie a string around my waist
and put a little knife on my belt and
you can just go out there and you know
string four or five fish and it's an
easy day its ton of fun
yeah and it's almost like it's not
fishing he'd call it spearfishing but
you're basically hunting underwater
they're hunting underwater yeah they
even have that I haven't done this yet
but maybe you've seen these these
underwater bows you can you can shoot a
bow with the fish yeah it's a bow
I don't think all bow fishing or what
but have you seen this I've seen
something like it yeah I know there's a
lot of bow fishing that people do
they're shooting down at Fairleigh gar
an alligator gar I'm particularly well
know it's supposed to be really good
smoked early it's such a weird looking
animal it's almost seems like in my mind
I almost feel like you shouldn't shoot
it because it's a dinosaur
yeah keep it alive because yeah they
they really haven't changed in millions
of years
yeah such a freaky look they're fun to
prepare though I'll do a fish feed after
spear fish you're all cold you're hungry
last one I did we had a pair of fish
don't know why stuffed with avocado and
mango coconut oil baked it in the oven
with macadamia nut like encrusted
macadamia nut pair of fish of the
workers that are eating the coral and
shitting out white sand I don't know
yeah did you know you've watched more
nature TV than I have that's what white
sand is it's shit
really yeah believe it or not it's like
these yeah these fish eat coral chew it
up and shit out the whites and so like a
giant white sand beach like Clearwater
Florida
that's all fish shit parrot fish poop
makes beautiful beaches there's the
article answer I wonder if it's good for
your and wonder if it's good for your
microbiome out on bacteria these
motherfuckers are out there just eating
rocks that's a lot of shit it's a lot of
parrotfish over a very long period of
time millions making a lot of shit like
here you go you can see that they're
chewing on the coral they bang it out
they have like a beak essentially that's
why they call them parrotfish they smash
down that coral and then all that white
around them is they're just basically
swimming around their own shit that's
pretty cool crazy that's pretty cool
very strange like that yeah um I was
gonna ask you something um metformin you
started talking about David yes it's in
Claire you can take that yes the
metformin maybe I don't know it seems
weird because that one's a drug it's
like it's like the darling of the
anti-aging industry right you know it's
like a nickel a pop and it's it's you
know hits mTOR to a certain extent but
the big deal with that is is glycemic
variability reduce risk of chronic
disease but there's a lot of side
effects of that really want to mention
that okay so you're saying that there's
none no there's lactic acidosis and it
inhibits the the electron transport
chain in the mitochondria which is fine
if you want down regulate metabolism
live a long time but not if you know if
you're an athlete you want to inhibit
mitochondrial respiration necessarily um
vitamin b12 deficiencies like it's
derived from French rue and physicians
for for hundreds of years been using it
but in limited quantities because it
induces nausea you say get
gastrointestinal disturbances might take
on metformin because because I've been
looking over the past year into a lot of
these anti-aging compounds that people
are now using or talking about using
like rapa myosin and metformin and nad
and a lot of these sirtuin precursors
but metformin and repre myosin actually
for for different reasons because that's
an immune system suppressor or to that I
don't think I would ever take really cuz
with myth for
there are a variety of natural compounds
that reduce blood glucose and improve
insulin sensitivity in the absence of
that like berberine curcumin apple cider
vinegar Ceylon cinnamon bitter melon
extract and you think all those things
are mimicking what metformin is capable
of doing I think so I'm not wearing it
right now but usually I wear a Dexcom g6
it's a continuous blood glucose monitor
it actually fell off yesterday when I
was doing that exercise that's one of
those ones who sees diabetics where the
stick sends my blood glucose to my cell
phone I learn all sorts of interesting
things like my blood glucose would spike
in the mornings like clockwork about 8
a.m. every morning and I was trying to
figure out like why is my blood glucose
going to 120 130 every single morning
well I'd have a cup of coffee in the
morning and even though I don't put
cream or sugar in my coffee I just drink
straight-up black coffee coffee actually
causes your liver to engage in something
called glycogenolysis so you actually
release glucose into the bloodstream
which is a good thing that's why you
drink coffee you you want that cortisol
release that glucose hit you know maybe
you want the flavor and the antioxidants
too but I would get a blood glucose
response from coffee hmm another one
that surprised me was green beans you
talk about legumes you talk about
slow-release carbohydrates and it falls
into that category but my blood glucose
would go up whenever I'd have green
beans so I actually got food allergy
tests through this company called cyrex
they do like a really good food allergy
test that doesn't give you this big
laundry list of false positives like
like there's like the ELISA and the al
cat test like the skin prick tests you
just get like a very small number of
foods that you're actually allergic to
there's a lot of these other tests
they'll show a bunch of antibodies to
food but it's antibodies to fuchs you're
eating that food alright so so many
people will be like to to them I'm
allergic to eggs I got a test down
allergic to eggs and I'm depressed
because that was a big staple in my diet
well it's only showing that you're
allergic to him because they were staple
in your diet because you're eating a lot
of eggs and you're winding up with a lot
of those egg proteins in your
bloodstream but this this cyrex man
explained that so basically if if you're
eating a lot of eggs you actually have a
lot of egg proteins circulating in your
bloodstream and if you get a food panel
you actually can very readily purr
like a food allergy panel you produce
antibodies to the egg protein and they
say that you're allergic to the egg
protein when in fact you just have a lot
of egg proteins in your system because
you've been eating a lot of eggs and
sometimes they'll even test the white
blood cell reaction to a raw egg not a
cooked egg right and so your white blood
cells are going to react more readily to
a raw egg versus cooked egg or raw
chicken versus cooked chicken I don't
think a lot of these food allergy panels
without accurate for that reason I think
they're just giving you a laundry list
of foods that you may or may not be
allergic to mmm but this one is called
it's called cyrex I've have no financial
affiliation or like that with this
company but I just think they do a good
job with their testing they you got to
order through a physician and I ordered
this test and I was allergic to almost
nothing like barely anything would spike
for me like a kind of like a moderate
spike for gluten green beans they were
off the chart off the chart so that
continuous blood glucose monitor was
actually able to tell me that I was
eating something that my sympathetic
nervous system was responding to I was
going to fight in flight mode releasing
a bunch of glucose and I never would
have really known that or gotten a clue
about that unless I was wearing one of
these continuous blood glucose monitors
I'm not gonna wearing my whole life but
I'm gonna wear it my plan is to wear for
a year to just learn a lot about the
foods that I usually eat what they do to
my body what certain workouts do what
certain supplements do about returning
to metformin I started to use a lot of
these things like bear brain like
curcumin you can do a shot of apple
cider vinegar before a meal take a
couple of teaspoons of ceylon cinnamon
and your smoothie and these things
actually have an effect on blood glucose
that mimics what you're trying to get
when you take metformin doing is just
limiting blood like I mentioned earlier
it does inhibit mTOR a little bit right
so so you get that mTOR in a bitch but
you can inhibit mTOR through like
calorie restriction fasting done
regularly or like a compressed feeding
window should have had you here
yesterday yes there's there's should
have had you here to talk to David
singing I want to finish listening to
that interview too because he's a very
smart guy but I I just I'm not enamored
with
Foreman well he's not a better more
natural alternatives he's an athlete he
barely works out and a lot of side a
little bit it does like a little bit of
run a little bit of lifting but you
could tell he's not he's not a guy who's
really yeah exerting himself rigorously
to me I want the marriage of performance
in-law job yes right I don't want to
live a long time if I can't kick ass
Biggs I don't want to be cold and hungry
and libido listen left home 150 like no
I want to even if that means I'm gonna
live to him 145 instead of 150 right
because I've got more muscle mass or
whatever like I want to feel good so
whenever I'm looking at a compound like
that I'm questioning whether or not it's
it's the best way to go if it's going to
inhibit my actual performance right his
alternatives he's so focused on
longevity yeah yeah but you could say
that about a lot of these things I mean
like like cryotherapy chambers right I
mean you look at the the Cherokee Native
American tribe would dip their babies in
icy cold water till they were like two
years old or the there's that the viral
video footage of the Siberian
schoolchildren I don't know if you've
seen this one they they rush out into
the snow during recess and their
underpants and they dump cold water on
themselves and run around the snow and
come back inside and in Iceland based on
some of the research that was done a few
decades ago on immune system they let
their babies sleep outside like sub-zero
temperatures in strollers yeah Wow you
know the Russians the Finnish the
Eastern Europeans they've all about
their their cryotherapy like the Baltic
Sea you know you go back and forth and I
go to Finland they've got the men's
Finnish sauna Society there's no crowd
therapy chambers and was just old-school
saunas and then you go jump in the sea
and you dry yourself off in the air then
you go back in the sauna so yeah you
know a lot of these things there's
natural alternatives yeah and and I I
get flak a lot of the time because I'm
you know I'm one of these so-called
biohackers I have like the the laser
lights in my office that I shine on my
balls and I've got like the you know the
lights that go in your ears and I've got
you know the
the stem cells and IVs and injections
but I always always want to make sure
people know that you go after the
natural stuff first
mmm like natural ways to get cold
natural ways to get hot if you're gonna
buy some expensive pulsed
electromagnetic field Matt you sure as
hell be better be going outside barefoot
right like our camping or sleeping
outside or learning how to earth and
ground in a more natural way what do you
what is involved in earthing and
grounding is there a real yeah there is
research especially in terms of a
reduction in inflammation and
improvement in joint comfort that's a
very interesting one and then when you
take these same frequencies so that the
earth naturally emits somewhere in the
range of about 3 to 100 Hertz
electromagnetic frequencies like way
lower than that in the you know million
Hertz frequencies again when you hold
your cell phone up Siri air but we're
walking around on basically a giant
electrical mat like there's a radiation
electromagnetic frequencies or at least
by earth and the idea is that these
fancy devices now these mats that you
can sleep on or do therapy on there's
there's like I've got one in my basement
that just packs a punch like who is
using the race horsing industry for a
long time it's called a pulse Centers
and you lay on that thing it just like
vibrates your whole body what is it is
it reduces inflammation if you think of
it like exercise for your cells it's
opening and closing the cell membrane so
you get this blood flow it's called a
pulse centers it's like a giant table
pulse centered it's got different coils
yeah yeah it's its pulse pulse centers
is the name of the company that makes
answers or sense centers centers but
it's got like attachments like coils and
pads that you can attach to your knee or
attach it like a bum shoulder or
whatever I'll just sit in there and work
on my computer I get a massage on it
every week for a couple hours so it's
taking the same frequencies you get from
the earth and just magnifying those just
delivering them in a more concentrated
manner the same thing with like a like
an infrared light panel I don't know if
you've seen these before they deliver
near-infrared far infrared red light
people will strip off their clothes and
stand in front of these things to get
more collagen production or you know in
the same way that that light that I was
talking about for your head
can enhance mitochondrial activity
neural tissue your your balls are
basically little eyes they have
photoreceptors on them they respond to
light you can actually increase
mitochondrial activity in the testicles
the lading cells and the testes to
increase testosterone or increase sperm
production so you shoot a light in your
balls oh yeah it is you grow more you
test you go outside and you did sunbathe
nude or you'd use one of these lights
and just stand in front like I literally
I look look like an idiot at work but
this is what I do I've got a light panel
in front of me right I'm at a standing
desk I work at a standing desk I've got
a light panel behind me and every day
for 20 minutes I just take my clothes
off at work and I stand sandwiched in
between these light panels and it
basically blasts me with this red light
but I also go out in the Sun right like
if I've got the option to do that versus
get outside in the sunlight I go out
under the sunlight if I've got the
option to take berberine and bitter
melon extract instead of metformin I'd
rather take the barren the bitter melon
extract so I think it just strips up
down and go as natural as possible and
then once you step up to the more
advanced you know anti-aging strategies
or biohacking strategies or
what-have-you you still have to look at
those with a skeptical eye and ask
yourself whether or not those are those
are really safe or if they have side
effects that might you know in many
cases limit your physical performance
and why do you prefer a standing desk
well the whole sitting is the new
smoking thing I disagree with I think I
think sitting is just fine like it feels
natural to set doesn't feel like you're
breaking some rule of the human body to
sit down like we're sitting down right
now it feels pretty good
the problem with sitting is that that is
the posture most people are adopting for
eight hours per day right the best
position to be in when you're working
would be whatever position you're not in
at the moment saying you know when you
look at weight training this would not
apply to hypertrophy which would dictate
that you want to hit a muscle over and
over again using the same angle with
increasingly difficult loads but for
metabolic training you would want to
actually throw curve balls at your body
right you would the best workout
therefore would be the one that you're
not doing right now if your goal was was
just to limit any type of metabolic
efficiency so the idea with the standing
desk is
I have that to give me yet another
position to be in during the day so I've
got it I've got a trueform treadmill and
I had true form modify it to take the
dashboard off so I've got that in front
of my standing workstation and then I've
got one of these balance boards that I
can stand on and I've got like a stool
that I can lean against so I've got all
these different positions that I can be
in during the day and then I've got that
that a pole centers chair in my office
that I can go and sit in so every 25
minutes I'll just shift to a different
position and my stand-up desk is a
hand-cranked stand-up desk so I can
crank it up and down if I do want to sit
at my desk it just it just works you
know it's it's it's the idea of hacking
your environment of equipping your
environment to be in as many different
positions as possible so I think that's
the key to feeling good at work
especially you're stuck indoors do you
believe in one of those have you seen
one of those it's a you stand at your
standing desk on this variable sort of
surface have you seen those things where
it's like a topographical Matt call the
topo the one like in our Boulder offices
for my company we've got the standup
desks that go up you push a button and
they go up and down but then what we
have is just scattered around the office
a few of those mats we've got some of
the if you've seen these fluids dance
things they like kind of like
skateboards that you stand on top of but
they're not they're not as gnarly as a
balance board so you can still focus
while you're standing on top of it um
you know we've got different stools
different chairs that will go up or down
so again like even if you're in a
corporate office I surprises me how many
people in there in their corporate
offices don't equip their employees just
to be able to move during the day yeah
yeah they don't care yeah yeah and the
most people aren't using organ Amish
chairs either yeah yeah what do you use
as your as your main chair Freese anomic
chair these chairs that we asked for sit
in right it's what I'm sitting in right
now Pisco
I feel like I'm not using it to its full
capacity it's excellent
what what are the what's the purpose of
the way that this is shaped right after
this he kind of leaned on it in a weird
way put your elbows on and if you like
but it encourages you to have an upright
posture I've got this thing called a
Mogo upright it's a
and I can even travel with it because it
will compress it weighs about two pounds
mm-hm and you can actually lean against
that and get into some different
positions on that one what does that
company that sent us something they have
one that's basically almost like it's on
a spring where you kind of have to
balance yourself out you have to like
active even more just to be I saw one of
those at a chiropractic event once it's
like kind of makes you squeeze your
pelvis while you're in the chair but
there's actually there's this dude in
Finland um he's got a company called
Sally s a ll I he used to ride horses
and he decided to start making chairs
that would get him into the same right
position that he'd be in we have riding
the whole chair yeah it's a saddle chair
there's one oh yeah I have one of those
too that Reza's pet my kitchen table
that's shit yeah really yeah it feels
like your balls are sandwiched in
between these two planks
I think the arm Nazis or so you can spin
around if you want to sit like AC Slater
style that's like a spider style chair
backwards
oh those saddle chairs they they've got
like little allen keys that come with
them and you can adjust to your pelvic
width no it mean defense my with it's
just weird
these be all those injections you've
been doing just give it a guess white
and pelvis that was my main chair for a
long time to Saturday but then when I
started using these capisco chairs it's
way more comfortable yeah well if you're
sitting for a long time yes yeah yeah
it's just it's easy and I have no back
pain when I use a regular office chair
and I sit for long periods of time I get
that Center back pain from just just
poor posture just so yeah in a curved
stance or curved position what about a
treadmill desk you tried one of those no
no see I can't do a lot on the treadmill
desk production-wise but if I'm ever let
if somebody's interviewing me like on
skype on a podcast I'm doing a console
call with somebody I'm reviewing blood
work or something like that I'll be
walking on my treadmill and then I've
got my microphone in front of me and I
have this program called Dragon
Dictation and Dragon Dictation allows me
to talk
like a headset yeah and it'll type the
words on the screen how you seize that a
long time ago but apparently I moved
leaps and bounds
yeah it's called training your dragon
via the Sofitel train your dragon and so
you say all these words you read all
these paragraphs and learns to identify
your phrasing right volume of your voice
and it gets more accurate but it's way
better than the built-in Apple whatever
yeah voice recognition software yeah so
it works and I like that because then I
can just walk I can I can talk emails I
can talk with people so there's like
three or four different things that I do
at work that I will walk during yeah
that makes sense that makes sense I
write when I'm just completely alone and
quiet staring at a computer because I
want to spend time on each individual
word and really concentrate on what the
fuck I'm saying because in most the time
of writing stand-up so I need to bounce
it back and forth and to talk it out
it's not really the right strategy yeah
yeah I I'm working on a book right now
and what I found is for me I have to
have a triggered environment like a
place in my house that when I go to that
place that's the place where your mind
says okay this is a writing spot for me
it's it's this chair in the corner of
the living room outside of my office as
soon as I get into that thing it's like
riding mode right right and I just I
just go Pomodoro all right for 25
minutes get up take a five-minute break
come back that's how I do it environment
to write in yeah an environment in a
good time like a specific time to write
is good to like well you know hey now
it's X amount you know it's X time
that's that's why I write yeah yeah
that's the idea behind all this new
research they're doing on morning nough
Steve meanest chrono types different
people being night owls versus morning
larks even there there was was a study I
was looking at yesterday about the
response to like an inflammatory stress
or I don't remember what the stressor
was but like when a morning type is
stressed out in the morning they handle
it better than when they're stressed
in the evening and vice versa and it's
very interesting this research on chrono
types I like the idea of just just being
able to shift your circadian rhythm
because I travel a lot like I haven't
been home in 17 days I've got two more
days on the road and then I'll be I'll
be home but when I'm going east to west
or west to east
I used light a lot to reset my circadian
biology and call the zeitgeist or CAD in
biology so like eating is one you want
to wait to eat until it's actual meal
time in whatever area of the world that
you're traveling to so if you arrive in
whatever you know New York City from
California 3 p.m. you don't want to eat
a bite of food until like 7 p.m. when
it's actual dinner because that helps to
regulate your circadian rhythm movement
is another one like you want to get
outside go for a walk go for a swim go
hit the gym I found that that's a big
one for me
whenever I travel the first thing I do
is I check in I go right to the gym yeah
outside take off my shoes and go outside
that's good too I've been but for me
like a rigorous workout makes all the
difference in the world in terms of like
how I actually feel yeah when I'm if I'm
training if I'm traveling a lot and
doing shows and I mean oh you don't want
to you get to a hotel room we just want
to lay down and relax
yes I defy that urge yeah I just go
straight to the gym yeah that's what I
find if you if you shut up the inner
bitch and make it through the first two
minutes you're good to go
yeah but light is the biggie light is
the biggie so I've got like the I've got
these buds that make light that go on my
ears you make light into your ear and
you have photoreceptors in your ears
photoreceptors all over your body that's
why if you were a sleep mask to go to
bed you still have to make the room dark
because you have photoreceptors on your
skin I've got the one that I was talking
about that I wear on my head that one's
called a that one's called a V light the
one that goes in your ears is called a
human charger and then I've got the one
that goes in the eyes that one's called
a retie mer and that one makes like this
greenish blue light that's not damaging
to your retina but that just blasts your
entire skull with light so I've got
light on my eyes light on my ears and
light on my head and I'll flip those
lights on back in front of the body and
that's
homes set up to get my circadian rhythm
restored so what I do is if I've been
back east right and my body that's 4:00
a.m. Pacific time is telling me it's 7
a.m. because I'm on Eastern Time my
circadian clock is on Eastern Time what
I do is I wake up oh I'm gonna lay in
bed for three hours waiting wait until
the time when I actually do want to get
up what I do is I wake up I get out of
bed and I put on those blue light
blocking glasses the ones that you're
supposed to wear at night right you know
like the yellowish orange lenses but I
block all light so I'm basically just
walking around and pretty dim setting in
my house you know I'll make coffee
sometimes or have some water stretch out
get some work done but I've got the
light blocked the whole time and then
whenever the time rolls around when I
actually want to start waking up all
right let's say I'm like 6:00 a.m. I
don't want to wake up at 4:00 a.m. I
want to wake up at 6:00 a.m. then I'll
go down my office and I'll put on the
eye thing the ear thing the head thing
the light in front of you picture you
little eyes behind me I need to see if
I've done it on an IG story before and
then you just blast yourself like 20
minutes and if I do that for two or
three days like my circadian rhythms
just right back on time right back on
time and I and I mean I fall asleep but
I'm supposed to fall asleep you know I
got a better like 10:00 p.m. I get up
about 6:00 a.m. and that's that's my
cycle every day but I just blast myself
with light when I get for me lack of
food is a good one you know make sure
you use some sort of fasting in order
you know to regulate everything when
you're traveling and then exercise those
are the two big ones yeah and then
eating after after rigorous training
puts everything sort of back into
perspective how do you fast
what's your fasting protocol 16 hours
every night every single night now one
or two nights a week I'll fuck off what
about like longer fasts during I don't I
had at all no I haven't done that I
started doing it yeah I started last
year it's my protocol now is 12 to 16
hours intermittent fast every day
Christmas Thanksgiving what it like as
soon as I stop it and I'm competitive
I'll set my watch if I finish eating at
8 p.m. I don't need again till 8 a.m. if
I finish eating at midnight then I don't
eat again until you know I give a
midnight first snack I won't eat again
till lunch
at least 12 p.m. so I do that every day
and then what I started doing once
Valter Longo came out with his research
on the longevity diet and this whole
idea of a fasting mimicking diet
inducing cellular auto financing
longevity to the same extent as if you
were just do like a pure water fast or
stop eating so what you do is on a
quarterly basis four times a year you
restrict the normal amount of calories
that you would eat to 40% of what you'd
normally eat so maybe you're doing maybe
you're just dropping one meal or for
every meal that you eat you're eating a
little bit less and you do this for five
days on a quarterly basis I started
doing that last year and I just have
like this stew that I make with split
mung beans and basmati rice and it's
called it's called Kittery it's an
Indian Ayurvedic cleansing stew dr.
Longos company el nutria sends out these
kits called pro lawn kits that are all
done for you
but I just wanted it to make make my own
stew that's easy for me I put a little
coconut yogurt on it and that's just
breakfast lunch and dinner for me for
five days in a row it's almost like a
like a seasonal cleaning so you do that
four times a year and the only other
thing that I do is one or two times a
month I try to go from Saturday dinner
to Sunday dinner without eating so it's
almost a 24-hour fast and with those
three things
12/6 Nariman fast quarterly five-day
like modified fast and then the 24-hour
fast one to two times a month that's
sustainable for me I could still perform
I could still work out um I think I
think that's the way to go how do you
feel when you do that 24 hour fast does
it work out that's 2 p.m. you get hungry
not 2 p.m. in the afternoon on Sunday
because what I'll do is I'll have dinner
on Saturday and then I'll wait the whole
day and I don't have a big Sunday dinner
and honestly it doesn't affect the
workouts that much because the magic of
fasting seems to be the compressed
feeding window and not the calorie
restriction right this returns to not
wanting to be hungry and cold and libido
less if you're gonna live a long time so
the idea is that you could fast from
Saturday dinner to Sunday dinner and
have a giant rib eye steak sweet potato
fry a red wine dark chocolate halo top
ice cream whatever you whatever you want
at the end of the dance
they eat 3,500 calories and then you're
justyou're topped off and you're ready
for the next day and you have a long
period in which you're engaged in
cellular cleanup cellular auto feature
but you kind of get to have your cake
and eat it too because you have a bunch
of calories at the end of that are you
drinking coffee yeah
so coffees fine I was actually surprised
you didn't ask me when I brought in the
sourdough bread and the and the coconut
macaroons and everything if they would
take you out of ketosis or break your
fast I get that question a lot now well
people are like well people people want
to know if the butter in your coffee you
know putting 800 calories of butter and
your coffee is gonna break your fast but
basically the idea is if it has calories
it breaks your fast it doesn't have
calories it doesn't break your fast zero
powers it's negligible it's like a few
cholesterol molecules and like the what
they call a coffee stall in the kawah
all its and even that if you use a paper
filter you're filtering a lot of that
out that's actually why I like French
press because you're not filtering some
of those like brain spinning compounds
out have you fucked around with any of
that for sig Matic mushroom coughing
yeah like that stuff that's actually
that's actually before I came over here
I had a cup of coffee and I had a pack
of that for sig Matic Lyons yes good for
cognition yeah I I've been drinking
there those little packets yeah a
fantastic it's a sponsor now yeah yeah I
know that fan tarot he lives down in
Venice Beach smart guy they do they do a
good job with their mushrooms so so
anything that has calories gonna take
out of fat but I'll drink black coffee
green tea both of those enhance your
fatty acid burning so it's actually
enhancing the benefits of a fast
occasionally if I'm gonna do a pretty
epic workout the two things that I'll
use in combo are ketone esters with
essential amino acids you combine those
very low number of calories but that's
like rocket fuel how much you get
cannibalism about 10 grams of essential
amino acids and the ketones what I've
been doing is a shot glass of this stuff
called its ketone aid and then there's
another company called HV MN that does
like it they all taste like ass but you
combine those with like a little bit of
amino acid so you have high ketones high
amino acids
neither of those are insulin hygienic so
it still keeps you in a relatively
fasted state if you want to go to a hard
workout or maintain muscle or whatever
what about your zips mushrooms you ever
fuck around with those and they're
amazing
yeah yeah I like cordyceps they seem to
act primarily on some of the some of the
pathways for oxygenation have we gotten
you ready action on a true telling' yeah
I've got all that I've got all the on it
and stuff yeah true tech is good
actually for Signet does it does it
cordyceps as well but the other one the
the lion's mane what I've been doing
I'll do this about two times a week just
take a very small amount of psilocybin
about 0.2 grams of psilocybin and you
take two packets of that lion's mane the
the four significant lion's mane extract
and then anything that increases blood
flow so it could be like beetroot any
nitric oxide precursors you could
probably try shroom Tek um niacin a lot
of people use niacin but you combine
anything that increases blood flow
couple map packets of the lion's mane
and then about 0.2 grams of psilocybin
and the cognitive picked me up you get
from that is profound mmm I mean you
know that psilocybin increases your
sensory perception your ability to pick
out color smell sense temperature etc
but just for getting through a day of
work or even like going on a long hike
or I'm I would not be surprised if our
ancestors used psilocybin for hunting
because you actually do get a pretty
good increase in sensory perception
smell and sight from it and visual
acuity as well yeah but that mix works
really well we're 80 the lion's mane
along with the with the psilocybin
extract it makes sense that there would
be some sort of a symbiotic benefit to
combining those sort of mushrooms
together yeah yeah yeah well it's like
that uh we were talking about this last
time that doctrine of signatures the
idea that what things look like in
nature could actually give you clues
about their benefit for the body and
when you find lion's mane I don't if
you've seen it in nature but it looks
like this cluster of axons and dendrites
like it looks like brain cells you know
up close see if you can find it yes look
up those lines
pretty badass looking or like there's a
lot of stuff like that like um there's
this place in kawaii you know I go to
called kawaii organic pharmacy and they
just grow on this tiny little two acre
farm all these different superfoods like
you know noni and cacao and they've got
comfrey there and if you dig up the root
of a comfrey plant there it is
yeah that's Lyons mat is create a great
name yeah but it also looks like
dendrites and axons and neurons so it's
very cool um what a threesome pleasing
plant I I have yet to actually find it
in nature but apparently you could find
it up and up in the Inland Northwest
where I live
anyways though comfrey they call it nits
bone and the roots look like knuckles
and joints and human bones and it's very
good for healing up fractures or for
making like a plaster for your joints a
plastic Humphrey plane a plaster yeah
well what-what that that farm seen
kawaii does they grind it into a powder
and then you reconstitute that with
water and you smear it like over a
shoulder joint they could just use like
a like a t-shirt or whatever to hold it
on there an ace bandage and it actually
increases the speed of bone healing or
joint healing like it like it's an
anti-inflammatory they do like a like a
muscle cream with the two made out of
the comfrey so it's very interesting
there's there's all sorts of different
different things in nature that give you
clues you know like the carrots and the
eggs for your eyes or the walnuts for
the brain I think there's something to
it that well how does that stuff
increase your bone healing like what is
it doing what's the mechanism I don't
know I don't know it might be like some
way of mineral delivery through the skin
something like that I've been blown away
by CBD by using putting CBD over muscle
trees a lot of companies do you like you
know what the trick with that is one of
the guys one of the doctors who work
with Tour de France teams was showing me
this you have an electrical muscle
stimulation unit I do I go mark pro or a
compacts or what have you yeah I got a
cop so you put your your CBD oil on your
magnesium or your arnica your trommel
whatever it is that
using and you rub that in then you put
the electrodes on top of that mm-hm and
then you put an ice pack on top of that
these three things you've got the the
cream or lotion
you've got the electrodes and then
you've got the the topical thing that
holds it on and the electricity drives
the anti-inflammatory deeper into the
tissue so it enhances the effect of like
a CBD oil or a magnesium and the ice
allows you to turn up the electricity to
a higher level without getting
uncomfortable so I do this at home I use
one called a called a mark pro and just
kind of surround the area that's
actually you know torn or that's painful
and I'll do a rub like that but you're
right CBD oil works amazingly for that
yeah that stuff is it's it's remarkable
because it's you're you're putting on
the surface of your skin and it's it
it's weird how it can get all the way
deep into a muscle or into a joint yeah
like a lot of people use it with knee
pain and it's just it's remarkable how
sore skin is a mouth yeah that's why
some of those personal care products are
kind of scary but a CBD personal care
product yeah like personal care but that
like parabens and phthalates and you
know estrogen you know the
phytoestrogens and then to couldn't
disruptors and stuff like that in them I
mean you know they've done studies where
you know like like guys will like take a
shower with the average shampoo that's
got you know like parabens and
phthalates and these things that can be
endocrine disrupters or or
phytoestrogens you know mimic estrogen
in a man's body
and they actually within a short period
of time after taking the shower and
using these care products you can
actually detect this stuff in their
urine like your body is actually soaking
this up and absorbing it is the very
very interesting book I interviewed this
guy my podcast is called Astro
generation about how many guys have
really high estrogen levels now from
primarily their personal care products
real or their household cleaning
chemicals so it's true that stuff trying
to turn you into a bitch yeah is more or
less you guys house you see a bunch of
sweet-smelling shampoos like surprise me
like like when I race for for a team
Timex we used to train out at the
the giant Stadium in New Jersey and I go
in the locker room there and it's just
like this you'd think that the peak of
performance in professional sports would
have started looking into by this point
how could you keep testosterone as high
as possible on a male athletes body
right but you walk into the bathroom and
it's just like every endocrine disruptor
known to man just like lined up in a
pretty shiny row there on the Shelf in
front of the men you know the shaving
cream and the shampoos and the spray do
ya I mean any it not all shaving cream
right but if it's if it's something that
has those kind of chemicals and
absolutely have you ever used dr.
Carver's shave butter and that sounds
familiar it said it's a dollar shave
club product it's the most incredible
shaving cream of all time like you know
regular shaving cream you won't you just
won't use it after you try that stuff I
think I've tried that because this
probably happens to you you get lots of
lots of personal care products since our
since your studio yeah but that stuff
blows me away it's like a butter I mean
it's called the dr. Carver's yeah huh
yeah interesting I'll get them on I'll
have to try you're gonna be blown away
but I don't have to shave that much so
don't have them sent very much you don't
you don't grow a lot of I grow a lot of
facial hair
no no but yeah these that's all you're
experimenting you'd think something
would have sprouted but you'd think it'd
be kind of weird like it'd just be like
one right-side patch of the chin right
that's like a hair but there's a mole
attached to the hair do you ever wonder
let's go let's go yourself stem cells
bleeding at the end
occasionally that like there's some of
the stuff on stem cells that admittedly
are a little bit of like a venture into
human experimentation without robust
evidence of safety how about the one we
shot into your dick yeah that's example
yeah but uh I'm kind of shifting my
whole philosophy on stem cells to kind
of go after stuff from my own body as
much as possible don't matter of being
autologous you know your own like that
one I did in New York City it says it's
not somebody else's law rights just
write my own stuff or you know in some
cases you could argue that placental or
umbilical or amniotic cell
are so young and so pluripotent you know
and if they don't have the the the the
DNA and the nucleus which apparently
they can they can kill off somehow which
is how they make exosomes you're not
getting somebody else's DNA you know
it's it's it's just something your body
would have made anyways and recognize
itself
so yeah some sometimes though um
sometimes though I probably have taken
it too far with a few of those things
but uh but the CBD that you were talking
about I'm a huge fan of I take CBD
before bed every night Oh
whirly a lot of it yeah when I look at
the studies on CBD for anxiety and for
sleep most of them are pushing 100 and
up to 900 milligrams which is nuts when
you look at the actual serving size of
the average CBD tincture or capsule or
pill it's like 10 mm-hmm so you gotta
take a lot of it but I sleep like a baby
like last night I got the the ring that
I do my sleeps Quan I slept eight and a
half hours last night and I take a
hundred milligrams of CBD I take a
little bit of melatonin and I'm just out
but yeah I take a lot of it and you wake
up kind of groggy when you do ritalin
but if you're used to that and you know
like you get up shake it off ten minutes
later you're good to go
what's the rugby was coming well totally
just over stimulation of the
endocannabinoid system there's like
super relaxed which I want to be when I
sleep right of course yeah yeah yeah it
works
what about regular marijuana does that
affect your sleep you find it beneficial
or no
so CBD can enhance your deep sleep
cycles alright which is which is when a
good majority of your neuronal repair
and recovery occurs THC allows you to
sleep and it actually decreases sleep
latency how long it takes you to fall
asleep but it does reduce the amount of
time you spend in deep sleep right so if
you're if you're one of those people
whose mind races who's hyper charged up
when it you know and you got to get to
sleep at night use THC like you know hit
of a pen or whatever but know that you
might miss out on some of the things you
want during deep sleep memory
consolidation neuronal repair and
recovery you know nervous system repair
but it's still pretty decent sleep
you're not getting as much of a
reduction in deep sleep as you would get
if you were to be taking like ambien or
valium or something that's literally
just like a sledgehammer for your
frontal cortex that knocks you out but
you almost get no deep sleep so if you
do this we were to get like a sleep
tracker and test your deep sleep levels
you would find that with CBD you don't
fall asleep as fast
but you get higher deep sleep levels and
then with THC you can fall asleep faster
but your deep sleep isn't quite as high
when you consider that CBD can
counteract a lot of effects of THC then
that means that what you could try is
take THC - why to fall asleep faster but
then pile a whole bunch of CBD on top of
that and I've done that before - where
you just take a hit on a vape pen and
then take a bunch of CBD and you shoot
for the best of both worlds yeah folks
that are taking ambient I mean that is I
mean especially people that are doing it
virtually every night that has got to
have a profound effect on your brain's
ability to recover I think there are a
lot of people shorting themselves on
life we're taking ambien or valium I
mean I I think to start with sleep you
need to rely on your body's own internal
chemistry and that would be breath work
like I think everybody before they start
taking whatever phosphatidylserine and
the data genic herbs and all this shit
for cortisol and before they start
taking valium or ambien or anything else
for for sleep you should learn how to
control your physiology with your breath
I think that's the most powerful way to
do it I mean your prana your shock or
whatever you want to call it like being
able to do things like breath work box
breathing alternate nostril breathing
even even holotropic breathing like you
can go some very interesting places in
terms of DMT production by the pineal
gland by just doing holotropic
breathwork like there's there's a lot of
very interesting things that you can do
with your breath but I think that for
getting to sleep or for decreasing
stress you start with the breath and
then you start to introduce some of
these other molecules but ambient valium
like in the era of like readily
available CBD and you know all the other
sleep compounds that we have available
like valerian and passionflower and
chamomile and
you know all of those are what are
called gamma-aminobutyric acid or GABA
precursors they produce inhibitory No
our transmitters I got I don't
understand what people are still taking
ambien valium cuz they're idiots yeah
they're just addicted to it or they just
want a pill I mean that's essentially
what it is they want faster buttocks and
they want ambien and Valley I don't know
if it's the same folks but many times it
is I think it's our president I think
our president takes that shit he I think
he's sleeping with ambien I think a lot
of politicians do that yeah well they
can't sleep otherwise they're fucking
ruining the world
I am i I've found that if my brain is
racing just completely concentrating on
breathing in and breathing out and
concentrating on just the breath itself
like really being cognizant of it and
slow deliberate breaths in and out and
in and now by doing that over long
periods of time I've found that I can I
can pretty much count myself out you can
but that takes focus a lot of people are
not willing to learn how to do that
because they want the fast track out
well that's yeah so that is the thing
right they just want a pill yeah it's
very unfortunate that those things exist
in that that that sort of thinking is
you know it's reinforced yeah yeah it's
encouraged in fact you know you've all
these ads and all these doctors and
different people oh well if you have a
hard time sleeping I'll just write your
prescription yeah actually you know and
I mean you look at the animal world like
they self-medicate they'll use clay for
parasites and you know dogs will eat
grass for stomach issues and you know
that I guess birds now are putting like
nicotine in cigarettes and their nests
cuz there's some kind of benefit to that
and you see animals self-medicating you
see our ancestors using everything from
you know cannabis to Ceylon cinnamon to
you know all sorts of different
derivatives for thousands of years so
it's not like supplementation or self
medication or the whole creation of
pharmaceuticals is something that's
unnatural or not an acceptable human
activity but once you start to used as a
crutch I think that's where you run into
issues like once once you deny the human
body's ability to be able to heal itself
or to be able to decrease stress on its
own you begin to rely on these exogenous
chemicals I think that's where you start
playing with fire I just wonder what's
happening to people's minds over
long-term use of this stuff where you're
not going into these deep sleep cycles
and you're using it every night because
essentially once you get hooked on it a
lot of people have a really hard time
sleeping without it yeah yeah I mean
they're shorting themselves right right
I wonder like studies in memory it's
learning like that that's where a lot of
that type of stuff happens I mean it's
the same thing with with um what's it
called lymphatic drainage like this this
new drainage system for the brain that
they've just discovered in recent years
this idea that you actually detoxify the
brain during the sleep cycles and it's
even enhanced when you sleep on your
side they've even looked at sleeping
positions and this thing called
glymphatic drainage and when you're not
going through proper sleep cycles or
you're constantly waking because you're
on your back and you have you know a lot
of people have sleep apnea where you
look at their sleep charts and they'll
frequently wake during the night or
though you'll see periods where they
just get ripped out of deep sleep yeah
you wake up and you don't have memory
consolidation mmm you don't have the
type of neuronal repair and recovery
that you'd want or you know you can't
even show yourself on muscle repair you
know and and there's there's probably a
lot that we don't know about just
dreaming and its ability to be able to
you know do things like help form
memories or or make you know learning or
experiences more deeply rooted but yeah
I mean it's it's it's I think sleep
architecture is something that just gets
super fucked up in a modern
post-industrial era we've got access to
pharmaceuticals I'll just take a
sledgehammer to our heads yeah no
question about it and it's also there's
been a lot of work done on actually
going to sleep with a problem this whole
idea of sleep on it like there's there's
actually something real to that that
there are there's some cognitive
balancing that's going on while you're
sleeping well your mind is actually
going over whatever issues you might
have and trying to come up with a
problem during sleep time during your
subconscious you don't want to know how
many times now and I'm learning this as
I get older that you delay a decision or
you delay replying to an email or delay
responding to a text message or
what-have-you until you've gotten a full
night of sleep on
and the clarity that you get after that
I mean you just basically think about a
little bit before you fall asleep then
you go to sleep and you wake up with
such a better answer the same thing with
a lock on it like walk on it is another
thing we know you you make more nerve
growth factor and more brain derived
neurotrophic factor when you walk while
you're learning I recently gave a TEDx
talk and I just I made the whole TEDx
talk and I learned the whole thing while
I was walking up on the Farm Road back
behind my house I just walk up through
the forest pop out in the sunshine and
walk up and down that road and just
listen to my TED talk on my earbuds and
give my talk hmm it's just it's it's
amazing for the brain but yeah I agree
dwelling out something before you go to
sleep it does the trick
I always if I do that I always have a
response the next day that's kinder less
emotional more understanding friendlier
yeah you know it's reciprocating any any
sort of good vibes it's it's it's really
interesting it's really really
interesting how there is some sort of a
wisdom that's imparted on you while
you're sleeping there is and now what I
do is I'll think about what it is but I
am a big fan of fiction before you fall
asleep it just lets you escape to a
whole different world I took my kids on
this giant tour of New York City like we
went we went to Chelsea Market and the
Highline Park and the Empire State
Building and Ellis Island we just did it
all but we went across the street from
Central Park to the New York Historical
Society where they had a Harry Potter
exhibit and we walked in there now I've
just always been resistant to the Harry
Potter phase Lathan just I've never read
the books and they're watching the
movies but my kids really wanted to go
so I took him and when I walked through
there and saw all the research the deep
research that that JK Rowling did on
alchemy and herbology and in the history
of magic and you know wizardry and and
she she actually took a deep dive into
all this stuff she pre planned out all
seven of those books before she even
wrote the first one and all of her
original manuscripts were in there and
her letters back and forth to the editor
and to the publisher
I walked out the other end of that
exhibit took about two hours to get
through you're just looking at
everything thumbing through everything
and I was just like a die-hard Harry
Potter fan where is this this was a it
was one of those things that was at the
New York Historical Society but you know
a lot of these they'll do an exhibit and
it'll kind of go in and out during the
year so I doubt it's still going right
now because this was like three months
ago and you know we walked out and I'm
you know my kids like dad this is the
Gryffindor wand and this is the the
Slytherin or the or Dumbledore Swan and
the Gryffindor sweater and the the
Slytherin
sweater and I just started buying them
all the sweaters and the wands and now
I'm reading the books um I'm halfway
through Goblet of Fire right now and I'm
actually digging it my 10 year old read
all she wrote home is in the course of a
year yeah have you gone to the universal
ride no but out of thing okay brochure
for that down at the Hilton where I'm
staying
it's amazing a Harry Potter world ride
is incredible it's a 3d ride where
you're on a roller coaster but it's not
3d but it's you know augmented or yeah
that would be nice for me I'm a fan I'll
go by myself yeah scream my hands up in
the air you love it yeah it's really
good the whole Harry Potter world is
really good it's amazing but a beer
though it'll give you diabetes I did
what might might one of my boys made
butter beer for his classmates because
they've got like a they help Mom with
all this stuff they've got like a
cooking podcast and they do their last
episode was marshmallows they made
marshmallows but there's like a cups
worth of bone broth and every
marshmallow it's like this healthy like
glycine infused marshmallow that they
made a dark chocolate fondue with whip
in coconut rice that much bone broth and
a marshmallow house what does it feel I
don't I don't have the recipe but it
tastes a bit like I'm usually not much
of a sneak snacks and a bed kind of guy
but I was like taking marshmallows to
bed eating marshmallows and reading
Harry Potter how much sugar is in the
marsh not a lot really I know that
they're doing a good job with their
podcast like they're doing a lot of like
like blackstrap molasses stevia and raw
honey and they're doing like
what else did they make they made like a
like a gluten-free baked donut with a
cream-cheese ginger frosting and cacao
nibs on top just like you dip it in
coffee and it tastes like a real donut
good Lloyd they are they're turning into
little little chefs they do get us yeah
what what's the benefit of grass-fed
beef over regular beef I know there is a
benefit but I don't I don't I never can
recall it correctly it's something to do
with the most in fatty acid ratios yeah
cuz grain you're gonna you're gonna have
more the omega-6 fatty acids which have
been unfairly vilified meaning that a
lot of people are just like don't eat
any omega sixes don't have any
arachidonic acid like don't don't overdo
your seeds your nuts your nut butter
kind of like the the orthorexia health
world as a whole you know like when you
read nutrition magazines and stuff
they're like do your omega-3s but be
careful Americans have a 20 to 1 omega-6
to omega-3 ratio but the problem is that
omega sixes that's a lot of those are
derived from what are called parent
essential oils and your cell membranes
need a certain amount of omega-6 fatty
acids from seeds and nuts and plants and
even to a certain extent grains and when
you have an excess of omega-3s and not
enough omega-6 is because you're going
so far into the fish oil category then
it actually damages a component of your
mitochondrial membrane called
cardiolipin you actually make less of
that really so you interfere with normal
cellular activity what seeds are most
beneficial I would imagine the most
nutrient-dense ones so specific almonds
macadamia I mean what I is like almonds
macadamia nuts Brazil nuts I just don't
eat the quasi nuts like peanuts which
are you know they're not as high in
nutrient density they're more of a
legging than a nut um a lot of my nuts
either raw or lightly roasted you always
look at the label to make sure they
didn't put a lot of vegetable oil and
canola oil in them little you know I'm a
fan of nuts in in moderate my nuts like
you'd eat your nuts if you were gonna
have to show
right like if you've ever had to shell a
walnut you're not gonna eat 30 walnuts
because that'd be exhausting right you
stash your shell it's annoying as hell
but keeps you from eating too many of
them i buy them shelled and I eat
fistfuls of them yeah like last night I
like half a bag yeah pistachios are
great for your microbiome too
yeah I actually had a couple of research
studies on that last year that showed an
improvement in the diversity of the
bacteria in your gut with pistachios
that's one of the nuts that's good for
your body probably because of the fiber
content in pistachios but grass-fed
versus grain-fed is primarily the
omega-3 fatty acids may have less of the
arachidonic acid less of the potentially
inflammatory omega-6 fatty acids there's
probably part of it being that grass-fed
grass-finished beef is generally raised
in a farm that's using less herbicides
less pesticides raising their meat and
more sustainable fashion you know giving
it less hormones giving it less
antibiotics that's painting with a broad
brush but I generally grass-fed there's
more to it than just the fatty acid
composition it's just a better meat
overall and my well better health-wise
grain-fed beef I will not lie like you
can you can have a pretty damn tasty
fatty cut of grain fed beef I certainly
can but I honestly prefer the taste of
grass-fed I like the denser meat the
darker meat I liked it better just to me
just it just tastes healthier I just my
crave it more you know and when I go
back and forth between the two of them
when I eat grain fed it feels like like
a lazy cow like it's mushy
it's got like it's good it's delicious
don't get me wrong but there's a
difference it's kind of funny because
I've gone over to Dubai a few times and
taught like fitness conferences over
there and they advertise grain-fed like
they want everybody like when you go to
the restaurants like this beef is the
finest grain fed beef grain pretty
widely recognized at the steak house in
the world that place is always a trip by
accident
I didn't like my steak it's how fucking
dare you know are you gonna get did you
not like some rude Brooklyn waiters
gonna take me out but
I didn't like it was like just something
about like the meat just taste it it
tasted like it was drenched in vegetable
oil like something about it didn't taste
right and maybe I had a poor Peter
Lugar's experience that doesn't even
make sense
I did not enjoy it that much I I ate
there and afterwards I'm like I don't
think it gets better I don't think I
don't think food gets better yeah how
dare your New York does have a lot of
good restaurants though yeah you all
they do my buddy David boule he's a chef
over there and he has this wonderful
restaurant where he brings like doctors
and nutritionists in and they teach you
about certain aspects of the food that
you're eating like I did one there on
longevity and I taught about like having
bitters before your meal to reduce your
glucose and your insulin response to the
meal and the use of like like sweet
breads for your thymus gland to increase
the activity of your immune system to
you know like a lot of these polyphenols
and antioxidants from the purples and
the greens and the blues too there are
these things called uncoupling proteins
that actually get activated with with
cryotherapy and cold water immersion but
that also are something that get
activated with the consumption of it's
it's like a sea urchins basically it's
like a sea urchin foam that they did at
this dinner but basically what he does
is he'll partner with the physician or
the nutritionist or whatever and make
this amazing like for our you know
five-star meal that's designed to
enhance the health effects and whatever
it is that you just learned about Wow I
was actually in New York when I did that
blood procedure a couple weeks ago I
dropped in there again and ate and
that's what my favorite places to go so
you know who's got a steak house in New
York City is that guy who fucking
sprinkles of salt what the hell's his
name salt Bay
he's got a place in New York I know this
guy you don't know that that fucking
that meme the guy's got the song
throwing it on the meat no you're too
busy doing actual work but I like salt I
like yeah I like good salt as a matter
of fact you know what the very best salt
that you can get is what this is based
on I was with a group of doctors a
couple of months ago in Park City and
this guy one of the guys was there he's
like a water and a salt expert and he
did what's called a mass spectrometry
analysis of all these popular salts
I came away on sea salt and black Kona
salt and Aztec salt and Mexican salt and
all these different salts and analyzed
them for their their mineral content
because you want high mineral content
but their metal content right like we
know that iron especially in guys now
we're finding out it's not that great
its oxidative it can cause damage it's
associated with inflammation we know
that metals and and micro plastics and
all these kind of things are winding up
in the food supply the top of the list
in terms of cleanliness and it's Celtic
salt healthy Celtic salt you know blue
bag it's kind of like a gray salt and
it's great because they don't like
bleach it but it's still cleans not like
pink and reddish because it doesn't have
a lot of irons heard of kelp tea that's
amazing flavorful it's big it's big
chunk so well as a meat rub oh look at
that
yeah I mean you can buy that yeah yeah
and that that stuff is about the
healthiest salt you can get okay
corn west dude yeah I like it I started
you know I always travel with some kind
of salt my wife gets pissed because you
know she'll make these amazing meals and
the first thing I do is I just pull out
the salt and just cover everything in
salt but I think it's because I excrete
a lot of salt if you were when I raced
for a 4/4 time ax actually they brought
in a bunch of physiologist to to test
our sweat sodium our sweat sodium
analysis meaning that they they measure
how much sodium you excrete for any
given volume of sweat and this kind of
returns that whole genetic thing like
when you look at people of a northern
European ancestry who would have come
from a population that did a lot of
fermenting a lot of curing on a pickling
we would develop some pretty robust
sodium excretion mechanisms right
because we're preserving our food with
salt you don't want all that salt to
build up in the body because you know
theoretically you could increase blood
pressure you could cause some damage if
you have too much salt and when you look
at other folks who didn't you know
people who would for example sweat a lot
and live in a hot environment you know
like like whatever South Africa are very
hot region of the Philippines or
whatever they would have some pretty
robust salt conservation mechanism
to be able to hold on to sodium and hold
on to salt because you're sweating more
well my sweat sodium analysis revealed
that I lose like two and a half times
more salt in my sweat than the average
person so I think that dictates to a
certain extent my almost my craving for
salt mmm when I was racing Ironman
Triathlon I would lay awake at night and
I can feel my blood pounding in my ears
after a day of training and I started
using salt heavily and one of the first
things that happens because salt
regulates aldosterone which is one of
the compounds that regulates your blood
pressure all that went away like I could
fall asleep at night you know when you
lay your head down on your pillow and I
couldn't hear the blood pounding in my
ears so for about four years I've just
I've been salt on everything just ton of
it I'm sold I gotta wrap this up
unfortunately that was awesome though
you're the best dude thank you so much
it's always good to talk to you you're I
don't know how the fuck you retain all
this information but I'm glad you do
thanks man
thanks man my pleasure I give everybody
your Instagram just uh Google Ben
Greenfield I'm everything you go alright
brother
[Music]